   Look up AD, ad-, or ad in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   An ad (advertisement) is a form of marketing communication. AD (Anno Domini) is a designation used to label years following 1 BC in the Julian and Gregorian calendars.  Anno Diocletiani, an alternative year numbering system  AD, A.D. or Ad may also refer to:    Contents   1 Entertainment  1.1 Music   2 Job titles 3 Media 4 Military 5 Organizations 6 People 7 Places 8 Science  8.1 Medicine   9 Technology 10 Transportation 11 Other uses 12 See also    Entertainment[edit]  A.D. (film), a 2010 animated zombie horror film A.D. (miniseries), a 1985 television miniseries set in ancient Rome A.D.: The Bible Continues, a television miniseries expected to air in 2015 A.D.: New Orleans After the Deluge, a nonfiction graphic novel about Hurricane Katrina American Dad!, a animated television program Animation Domination, a television programming block Arrested Development (TV series) AD))), a logo used to mark programs that are augmented with an audio description track  Music[edit]  AD (band), a Christian Rock band A.D. (album), by Solace  Job titles[edit]  Art director, for a magazine or newspaper Assistant director, a film crew member Athletic director, the administrator of an athletics program  Media[edit]  Algemeen Dagblad, a Dutch newspaper Architectural Digest  Military[edit]  Accidental discharge, the mistaken firing of a firearm Active duty, a status of full duty or service, usually in the armed forces Air defense, anti-aircraft weaponry and systems Air Department, part of the British Admiralty AD, the United States Navy hull classification symbol for "destroyer tender", a type of support ship  Organizations[edit]  Action Directe (terrorist group), in France Analog Devices, a semiconductor company Democratic Action (Spanish: Acción Democrática), a Venezuelan political party Democratic Alternative (Malta) (Maltese: Alternattiva Demokratika), a Maltese political party Akcionersko društvo (aкционерско друштво), Macedonian name for a joint-stock company Aktsionerno drujestvo (акционерно дружество), a Bulgarian name for a type of company  People[edit]  Ad (given name)  People nicknamed "AD" or "A.D." include:  A. D. Loganathan, Indian major general A. D. Whitfield, American football player A. D. Winans, American author Adrian Peterson, American football player  "Ad" can also refer to:  ‘Ad, great-grandson of Shem, son of Noah ʿĀd, ancient Arab tribe, mentioned in Quran  Places[edit]  Andorra, by ISO 3166-1 country code Abu Dhabi  Science[edit]  Adamantyl, abbreviated "Ad" in organic chemistry Adenovirus, viruses of the family Adenoviridae Adjoint representation of a Lie group, abbreviated "Ad" in mathematics Anaerobic digestion, a biological process Antiproton Decelerator, a device at the CERN physics laboratory Approximate digestibility, an index measure of the digestibility of animal feed Autodynamics, a physics theory Autosomal dominant, a classification of genetic traits Axiom of determinacy, a set theory axiom Sharpless asymmetric dihydroxylation, a type of organic chemical reaction  Medicine[edit]  Addison's disease, an endocrine disorder Alzheimer's disease, a neural disease Anti-diarrheal, a medication Atopic dermatitis, a type of skin disorder Atypical depression, a mood disorder Autonomic dysreflexia, a reaction to overstimulation  Technology[edit]  .ad, the top level domain for Andorra Active Directory, a component of Microsoft Windows Active Disassembly, a technology supporting the cost-effective deconstruction of complex materials Administrative domain, a computer networking facility Analog-to-digital converter, a type of electronic circuit Audio description, a narration track for blind and visually impaired viewers of media such as TV and film Automatic differentiation, a set of computer programming techniques to speedily compute derivatives AD16, the hexadecimal number equal to decimal number 173  Transportation[edit]  Azul Brazilian Airlines, by IATA code Air Paradise, a defunct Indonesian airline by IATA code Airworthiness Directive, an aircraft maintenance requirement notice Dennis Dragon, a type of bus  Other uses[edit]  Aggregate demand, a macroeconomics term United States Academic Decathlon, a high school academic competition  See also[edit]  Anno Domini (disambiguation) All pages beginning with "ad" All pages with titles containing "ad"     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title AD. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      