For other uses, see Anya (disambiguation).   Anya   Gender Female   Language(s) Hebrew, Sanskrit   Origin   Meaning "Graceful", "Inexhaustible"   Other names   See also Hannah, Anna, Áine      Look up Anya in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Anya is a feminine given name. It is also found as a surname.    Contents   1 Origins and variant forms 2 People with the given name Anya 3 People with the given name Anja 4 People with the given name Ania 5 Fictional characters 6 People with the surname Anya 7 See also    Origins and variant forms[edit]  Anya (Аня) is a Russian diminutive of Anna, derived from Hannah which means "gracious" or "bringing goodness" in the original Hebrew language. Ania is the spelling in Polish, which is also a diminutive of Anna. The spelling Anja is common in Croatian, Norwegian, Danish, German, Swedish, Finnish, Dutch, Slovenian, Macedonian and Serbian. Áine is the Irish spelling of the name. Anya in Sanskrit is either a word meaning "inexhaustibility" or a pronoun meaning "other" or "another person" (it also has this meaning in Hindi). Aanya is a common spelling of this name in India. Anya in Hungarian means mother (other forms: édesanya, anyu, anyuka, anyuci)[relevant? – discuss]. Inya along with 'mama' means mother in some sub-ethnic languages of the Luhya ethnic group of Kenya. Anya means "eye" in the Igbo language of Nigeria.  People with the given name Anya[edit]  Anya Ayoung-Chee, former Miss Trinidad and Tobago and winner of season 9 of Project Runway Anya Corke, Woman Grandmaster and the top female chess player in Hong Kong Anya Gallaccio, British artist Anya Garnis, Siberian Ballroom and Latin Dancer Anya Hindmarch, a British fashion designer Anya Kamenetz, a freelance writer Anya Rozova, a fashion model, runner-up in America's Next Top Model under the name Anya Kop Anya Lahiri, a British singer Anya Major, an athlete, actress, model and singer Anya Marina, a singer-songwriter Anya Monzikova, a Russian-American model on the Deal or No Deal game show Anya Schiffrin, an international business professor at Columbia University Anya Seton, author of historical romances Anya Taranda, an American model Anya Teixeira, a street photographer  People with the given name Anja[edit]  Anja Andersen, Danish Handball player Anja Edin, Norwegian handball player Anja Garbarek, Norwegian musician Anja Hazekamp, Dutch politician Anja Plaschg, alias Soap&Skin, Austrian musician Anja Pärson, Swedish alpine skier Anja Rubik, Polish fashion model Anja Steinlechner, Austrian-American musician Anja Spiegelman, Author Art Spiegelman's mom in the book Maus  People with the given name Ania[edit]  Ania (singer) (born 1981), Polish singer and composer Ania Said Chaurembo (21st century), Tanzanian politician Ania Walwicz (born 1951), Australian poet and prose writer Ania Wiśniewska (born 1977), Polish singer  Fictional characters[edit]  Anya Alstreim, a supporting character in Code Geass. Anya Amasova, a Soviet spy played by Barbara Bach in the James Bond movie The Spy Who Loved Me. Anya Claus, wife of Dudley Moore's Santa in Santa Claus: The Movie. Anya Jenkins, a thousand-year-old vengeance demon played by Emma Caulfield in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Anya MacPherson in Degrassi: The Next Generation. Anya Stroud, the dispatch girl from the science fiction video game Gears of War Ania Williams in the soap opera Family Affairs. Anya, an alchemist in Diablo II: Lord of Destruction. Anya, Princess Ann played by Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday. Anya, daughter of the Marvel Comics character Magneto. Anya (Star Trek), a guardian in the Star Trek episode "The Dauphin". Anya is Princess Anastasia's name as an orphan in the theatrical release of the 1997 animated family film Anastasia produced by 20th Century Fox. Anya in Negima!. Ania, Iolaus's wife-to-be, played by Jill Sayre in Hercules and the Amazon Women. Anya, a mission director in the game Project I.G.I.: I'm Going In and its sequel. Anya Borzakovskaya, from the 2011 graphic novel Anya's Ghost. The Groovy Girls doll line, by Manhattan Toy, features a doll named Anya. Anya Hepburn, a wealthy meister in the DWMA. Soul Eater Not!. Anya, a recurring character in the first and second season of The 100 played by Dichen Lachman.  People with the surname Anya[edit]  Ikechi Anya, a professional footballer  See also[edit]  Áine (given name), an Irish given name with the same pronunciation Anya (disambiguation), other meanings Ania (disambiguation)     This page or section lists people that share the same given name. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change that link to point directly to the intended article.      