For use of the word "anyone", see indefinite pronoun.  For the 1999 Roxette single, see Anyone (song). Anyone is a band from Southern California that formed in 1995. Their 2001 self-titled album was released on Roadrunner Records. The band are credited with creating the genre known as "maximum acid", combining a heavy metal sound with psychedelic rock influences. Anyone is the brainchild of Riz Story, the band's lead singer, guitarist, songwriter and producer, and also the only member of the band that has remained since its inception. ANYONE received much critical acclaim for its label debut throughout the international press, especially in Europe. The band toured extensively on the album, notably at the Reading Festival, Leeds Festival and Lowland Festival as well as 3 American tours. The album received many honors including being named #9 on the metal hammer year end chart for Metal Hammer's Albums Of 2001 list.[3] Other awards include "best band" Los Angeles Music Awards.    Contents   1 History 2 Music 3 Former members 4 Discography 5 References 6 External links    History[edit] The group was preceded by the band SYLVIA, consisting of Story, drummer Taylor Hawkins, guitarist Sean Murphy and Jon "Juano" Davison (YES, Glass Hammer) which dissolved when Hawkins joined Alanis Morissette's band (and later Foo Fighters), and Murphy began to work with bands Magdalen and Divinorum, besides his solo career. This led to Story's formation of Anyone in 1995,[1] him being joined by bassist "Static" and drummer Dave "Nipples" Murray. In 1996, Anyone's first album Rats Live on no Evil Star (a palindrome) was released on an indie label.[2] The live album Live Acid was released in 1999, and by 2001 the band were signed to Roadrunner Records and were working with record producer Rick Parashar, and released their self-titled full-length debut, Anyone in that year.[1] The single "Don't Wake Me" was shown on the Kerrang! music channel as well as MTV. The album received outstanding reviews throughout Europe. RoadRunner Records dropped ANYONE just as they were rising to prominence. Insiders say that the band was dropped due to their controversial politics, lyrics and artwork, and in particular Story's unreleased film "TogethermenT" which reportedly offended the label executives. After dropping the band RoadRunner Records pulled the album from circulation entirely, making the debut album by ANYONE a rare collectors item. Johnny Ransom replaced Nipples as drummer in 2002, and both Ransom and "Static" were replaced in 2004 by "Boano" as drummer, and Miki Black as guitarist and keyboardist and Miles Martin on bass. The DVD The Story of Maximum Acid was released, as was the EP A Little Sip in 2006. Riz Story disbanded ANYONE in 2006. Story began working with ex-Korn drummer David Silveria in 2012 when the two formed the band INFINIKA. The debut album "Echoes and Traces" was released worldwide on September 1, 2014. The INFINIKA sound is largely based on the direction of ANYONE with its large range of dynamics and thought provoking lyrics. Music[edit] They have been compared to Jane's Addiction, Faith No More and Tool.[1] "Maximum Acid" is the term the press used to describe their unique sound, as a fusion of hard rock and psychedelia.[3] Former members[edit]  Static (musician) (1998–2003) Bassist on Rats Live on no Evil Star, Live Acid, and Anyone. Dave "Nipples" Murray (1996–2000) Drummer on Rats Live on no Evil Star, Anyone and Live Acid. Johnny Ransom (2000–2002) Drummer on tour. Brendan Murphy (musician) (2002) Drummer on a tour supporting Anyone. Boano (2004–2006) drums Miki Black (2004–2006) guitars and keyboards  Discography[edit]  Rats Live on no Evil Star (1996) Live Acid (1999) Anyone (Roadrunner Records, 2001) The Story of Maximum Acid [DVD] A Little Sip [EP] (2006)  References[edit]   ^ a b c Anyone at the Allmusic. ^ Anyone profile on the Roadrunner Records site. ^ UniverCity interview with Anyone.   External links[edit]  Anyone at myspace.com RisStory at myspace.com Former member Miki Black's website     