   Look up attention in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Attention is the mental process involved in attending to other objects. Attention may also refer to:    Contents   1 In psychology and neuroscience 2 In computing 3 In economy and management 4 Film, TV and arts 5 Music  5.1 Albums 5.2 Songs   6 In other uses    In psychology and neuroscience[edit]  Attention seeking, behavior which is intended to attract attention from others Attention span, the amount of time a person can concentrate on a single activity Selective attention, the process by which only a subset of stimuli received by our sensory organs are selected to enter the consciousness Attentional bias, a type of cognitive bias Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, a developmental disorder Adult attention-deficit disorder, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder present in adulthood Continuous partial attention, is constantly paying attention to different things, but only partially Inattentional blindness, is the phenomenon of not being able to see things (as of a cognitive filtering process) that are actually there.  In computing[edit]  Attention management, the practise of using automation and user interface techniques to provide greater context and control supporting people in being more attention effective (better at allocating their cognitive resource in short or long term). Secure attention key, a key combination entered before a login screen is presented Principles of attention stress, a user interface design theory Attention Profiling Mark-up Language, an XML-based format for capturing a person's interests and dislikes.  In economy and management[edit]  Attention economy, an approach to the management of information that treats human attention as a scarce commodity. It is also linked with the concept of long term attention. Attention (advertising), the measure of an advertisement's ability to win the audience's attention Social attention. Level of attention that people dedicate to interacting with other. (this concept is linked with Attention economy)  Film, TV and arts[edit]  Short Attention Span Theater, a Comedy Central television series The Centre of Attention is a London-based contemporary art organisation  Music[edit]  Attention (band), a rock band from Minneapolis, MN  Albums[edit]  AttenCHUN!, album by BoneCrusher Attention (Philmont album) an album by Christian rock band Philmont Attention (GusGus album) an album by GusGus Attention!, an album by Alexander Klaws Pay Attention, an album by The Mighty Mighty Bosstones Attention Please (album), an album by Caroline's Spine  Songs[edit]  Attention (song) Lithuanian Eurovision entry "Attention", a song by Tokio Hotel from Humanoid "Attention", a song by Ringo Starr from Stop and Smell the Roses  In other uses[edit]  Mindfulness, a Buddhist conception of attention At attention, the military courtesy of standing erect when ordered to Eight Points of Attention, a military doctrine that was issued in 1928 by Mao Zedong     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Attention. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      