   Look up Boom, boom, or booms in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Boom may refer to:    Contents   1 Objects 2 Other common meanings 3 Arts and entertainment  3.1 Music  3.1.1 Performers 3.1.2 Albums 3.1.3 Songs 3.1.4 Festivals   3.2 Films 3.3 Television 3.4 Other   4 Places 5 Media 6 People 7 See also    Objects[edit]  Boom (containment), a temporary floating barrier used to contain an oil spill Boom (navigational barrier), an obstacle strung across a navigable stretch of water to control or block navigation Boom (sailing), spar at the foot of a sail on a sailboat Boom (ship), a type of Arab sailing vessel Boom (windsurfing), a wishbone shaped piece of windsurfing equipment Log boom, a barrier placed in a river Boom, the lifting part of a crane (machine) Boom, the rear fuselage of an aircraft, as in twin boom  Other common meanings[edit]  Economic boom, time of rapid growth in wealth, as in a boom town Sonic boom, the sound created by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound  Arts and entertainment[edit] Music[edit] Performers[edit]  Boom! (band), a pop band founded by Hear'Say member Johnny Shentall The Boom, a Japanese rock band Boom Gaspar (born 1953), piano/keyboard/organ player for the band Pearl Jam  Albums[edit]  Boom (album), a 1966 album by The Sonics  Songs[edit]  "Boom" (Anastacia song), by American recording artist Anastacia, the official song for the 2002 FIFA World Cup "Boom" (Anjulie song), a 2008 song by Anjulie "Boom", from One Fierce Beer Coaster (1996) by the Bloodhound Gang "Boom" (Flight of the Conchords song), from the episode "Bret Gives Up the Dream" "Boom" (Mario song), a 2005 R&B single by Mario featuring Juvenile "Boom", from the 2008 album The Sound by gospel R&B duo Mary Mary "Boom" (P.O.D. song), a 2002 song by American rock band P.O.D. from Satellite "Boom" (Royce da 5'9" song), the first single from rapper Royce da 5'9"'s debut studio album Rock City "Boom" (Snoop Dogg song), a 2011 song by West Coast rapper Snoop Dogg "Boom", on the album Primitive by Soulfly "Boom!", on Steal This Album! by System of a Down "Boom" (T-Pain song), a 2008 special collaboration single with Filip Filippi, better known as Sin Sizzerb  Festivals[edit]  Boom Festival, an electronic music festival in Portugal BOOM Festival, a former Yugoslav music festival  Films[edit]  Boom! (film), a 1968 British drama starring Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton and Noël Coward Boom (film), a 2004 Bollywood film directed by Kaizad Gustad Il Boom, a 1963 film by Italian director Vittorio de Sica  Television[edit]  Boom! (TV series), an American reality television series that aired in 2005 "Boom" (CSI), a first-season episode of C.S.I.: Crime Scene Investigation "Boom!" (Castle), the conclusion to a two-part arc of the TV series Castle Boom (Power Rangers), a character from the American TV series Power Rangers: S.P.D.  Other[edit]  Boom! (novel), a 2009 children's science fiction novel by Mark Haddon Boom (play), by Peter Sinn Nachtreib Boom (source port), a source port of the computer game Doom  Places[edit]  Boom, Belgium, a municipality Boom Mountain, on the border between Alberta and British Columbia, Canada  Boom Lake, near the mountain   Boom Gorge, a gorge on the Chu River in Kyrgyzstan Boom, Texas, former name of Summerfield, Texas  Media[edit]  BOOMTV, a proposed Canadian premium TV service Boom TV (Romania), a satellite TV company Boom TV (Macedonia), a digital TV provider Boom! Studios, an American comic book and graphic novel publisher Boom FM, a branding of classic hits radio stations broadcasting in Canada KROI, a radio station serving the Greater Houston area, branded as Boom 92 XERP-AM, a Mexican radio station serving the Tampico, Tamaulipas area, branded as boom 104.7 WPHI-FM, a radio station serving the Philadelphia area, branded as Boom 107.9  People[edit]  Boom (surname) Boom (nickname) Boom (entertainer) (born 1982), South Korean rapper, singer and actor  See also[edit]  Boom operator (media) Bang (disambiguation) Boom Boom (disambiguation) Boum (disambiguation)     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Boom. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      