For other uses, see Cabal (disambiguation).      This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2012)       Sculpture of Christian Knorr von Rosenroth, a German Christian Hebraist and Christian Cabalist   A cabal is a group of people united in some close design together, usually to promote their private views or interests in a church, state, or other community, often by intrigue, usually unbeknownst to persons outside their group. Cabals are sometimes secret societies composed of a few designing persons, and at other times are manifestations of emergent behavior in society or governance on the part of a community of persons who have well established public affiliation or kinship. The term can also be used to refer to the designs of such persons or to the practical consequences of their emergent behavior, and also holds a general meaning of intrigue and conspiracy. The use of this term usually carries strong connotations of shadowy corners, back rooms and insidious influence. The term is frequently used in conspiracy theories; some Masonic conspiracy theories describe Freemasonry as an internationalist secret cabal.    Contents   1 Origins of the word 2 Association with Charles II 3 In technology 4 Notable uses 5 See also 6 Notes    Origins of the word[edit] The term cabal derives from Cabala (a word that has numerous spelling variations), the Jewish mystical interpretation of the Hebrew scripture. In Hebrew it means "reception" or "tradition", denoting the sod (secret) level of Jewish exegesis. In European culture (Christian Cabala, Hermetic Qabalah) it became associated with occult doctrine or a secret.[citation needed] Association with Charles II[edit] Main article: Cabal Ministry The term took on its present meaning from a group of ministers of King Charles II of England (Sir Thomas Clifford, Lord Arlington, the Duke of Buckingham, Lord Ashley, and Lord Lauderdale), whose initial letters coincidentally spelled CABAL, and who were the signatories of the Secret Treaty of Dover that allied England to France in a prospective war against the Netherlands.[1] However, the Cabal Ministry they formed can hardly be seen as such; the Scot Lauderdale was not much involved in English governance at all, while the Catholic ministers of the Cabal (Clifford and Arlington) were never much in sympathy with the Protestants (Buckingham and Ashley). Nor did Buckingham and Ashley get on very well with each other. Thus the "Cabal Ministry" never really unified in its members' aims and sympathies, and fell apart by 1672; Lord Ashley, who became Earl of Shaftesbury, later became one of Charles II's fiercest opponents. The theory that the word originated as an acronym from the names of the group of ministers is a folk etymology, although the coincidence was noted at the time and could possibly have popularized its use. The group, who came to prominence after the fall of Charles' first Chief Minister, Lord Clarendon, in 1667, was rather called the Cabal because of its secretiveness and lack of responsibility to the "Country party" then run out of power. In technology[edit] During the early years of the Usenet internet messaging system, the term "backbone cabal" was used as a semi-ironic description of the efforts of people to maintain some order over the structure of the community, and led to a popular phrase in the network, "There Is No Cabal" (abbreviated to "TINC"). The computer game company Valve Software uses "Cabal Rooms" when working on specific areas of projects.[2] The Conficker Cabal is a team of specialists working to defeat the Conficker computer worm, including several notable computer security specialists.[3] Notable uses[edit] Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown denounced the leaders of the regime in Zimbabwe as a "criminal cabal".[4] See also[edit]  Group narcissism Nepotism  Notes[edit]    Look up cabal in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cabalism.     ^ Durant, Will and Ariel. The Age of Louis XIV. (page 277) New York: Simon And Schuster, 1963. ^ "The Cabal". Gamasutra. Gamasutra. Retrieved 16 September 2011.  ^ Bowden, Mark (May 11, 2010). "The Enemy Within". The Atlantic. Retrieved 2013-05-17.  ^ "Zim led by 'criminal cabal': Africa: Zimbabwe". News24. 2008-07-09. Retrieved 2014-08-17.       