      It has been suggested that this article be split into articles titled Carter (surname). (Discuss) Proposed since March 2015.      Look up carter in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Carter is a surname, which originally meant a person who hauls goods in a cart. It comes from the Gaelic and Celtic word Cairt, meaning cart. Being of Gaelic and Celtic origins the name would have formed in Ireland, Scotland and later migrated to England where it was reduced to its English pronunciation and form. However, this name stems from a few common surnames, the names being McCarthy, McArthur and McCarter. People with this surname may trace their ancestors back to Ireland, many of these name holders ancestors escaped Ireland during the Irish diaspora heading to Great Britain, the American colonies typically the colonies of New York, Massachusetts, Georgia and Virginia. Other immigrants entered the United States later during the Great Famine of Ireland in the 1840s and later. By the time the early 20th century the 1900s and 1920s, came in to play many Irish immigrants coming from Ireland to the states brought this name with them as their name, with records in Ellis Island proving to this claim. In Ireland the counties with the highest amount of families living with this surname are Laois, Galway, Meath and Leitrim however all counties have families living with this surname just these counties seem to be where the name might have originated. Laois seems to be the place where most Carter's settled or where the name began in origin. Further information can be found on the Carter surname in Ireland and the counties it is predominantly found in can be viewed here on this website. In recent times, as within the past 150 to 200 years the Carter surname has been adopted widely by the African American community, either with ethnic black and Irish mixing or taken from slavemasters by former slaves. This name is popular among African Americans capable of tracing their roots back to the southern United States from the early 20th century onward. Jimmy Carter, 39th president of the United States For other people with this name, see Carter (name). Carter may also refer to:    Contents   1 In politics 2 In fiction 3 In music 4 In the visual arts 5 In sports 6 In geography 7 Other 8 See also    In politics[edit]  Ashton Carter (born 1954), American physicist, Harvard University professor, and United States Secretary of Defense  In fiction[edit]  Carter (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles), cartoon character John Carter of Mars, protagonist of the Barsoom series by Edgar Rice Burroughs John Carter (ER), character from the NBC drama ER Samantha Carter or Carter, main character in the TV series Stargate SG-1 and Stargate Atlantis Carter Kane, character in The Kane Chronicles Zebadiah John Carter, a protagonist of The Number of the Beast by Robert A. Heinlein  In music[edit]  Elliott Carter. American composer. June Carter Cash, American country singer. The Carter Family, traditional American folk music. Carter, American song writer and producer. Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine, English indie rock band. Dwayne Carter, American rapper Lil Wayne. Sean Carter, American rapper Jay-Z.  In the visual arts[edit]  Carter (born 1970), professional name of American artist and film director, John Carter  In sports[edit]  Dixie Carter, professional wrestling promoter, and current president of TNA. Ethan Carter III, professional wrestler, current working in TNA, and formerly known as Derrick Bateman in the WWE. Vince Carter, professional basketball player, current plays to Memphis Grizzlies in the NBA.  In geography[edit]  Carter County, Kentucky, United States Carter County, Missouri, United States Carter County, Montana, United States Carter County, Oklahoma, United States Carter County, Tennessee, United States Carter, Forest County, Wisconsin, United States Carter, Iron County, Wisconsin, United States Carter, Montana, United States Carter, Oklahoma, United States Carter, South Dakota, United States Carter, Wyoming, United States Carters Creek, a river in Tennessee  Other[edit]  Carters Coach Services, a bus operating company in Suffolk, England Carting business, the horizontal transport of ore, coal, supplies, and waste, also called cartage Carter's, Inc., a clothing manufacturer of primarily baby and children's apparel Carter Machinery, a Virginia-based Caterpillar distributor and manufacturer of engine lubricants Carter's Foods, a defunct supermarket chain  See also[edit]  Agent Carter (disambiguation) All pages with titles containing "Carter"     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Carter. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      