For other uses, see Ceremony (disambiguation).     Newly commissioned officers celebrate their new positions by throwing their midshipmen covers into the air as part of the U.S. Naval Academy class of 2005 graduation and commissioning ceremony.       Ceremonial at court during Prinsjesdag       Israel Defense Forces Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz salutes Yom Kippur War casualties at an official annual memorial service.       Leaders welcome a boy into Scouting, March 2010, Mexico City, Mexico.   A ceremony is an event of ritual significance, performed on a special occasion. The word may be of Etruscan origin, via the Latin caerimonia.[1]    Contents   1 Ceremonial occasions 2 Government ceremonies 3 Celebration of events 4 Process 5 See also 6 Notes 7 External links    Ceremonial occasions[edit] A ceremony may mark a rite of passage in a human life, marking the significance of, for example:  birth initiation (college orientation week) puberty social adulthood (Bar (or Bat) Mitzvah) graduation awarding retirement death (Day of the Dead) burial (funeral) spiritual (baptism, communion) Opening and closing of a sports event, such as the Olympic Games  Government ceremonies[edit] Sometimes, a ceremony may only be performed by a person with certain authority. For example, the opening of the United Kingdom Parliament is presided over by the Sovereign (Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II). A captain or a higher-ranked naval officer usually supervises the naming and launching of a warship. A wedding is performed by a priest or a Civil Celebrant, as in Australia. The President of the United States is customarily sworn in by the Chief Justice of the United States, and the British sovereign is always crowned by the Archbishop of Canterbury. Celebration of events[edit] Other, society-wide ceremonies may mark annual or seasonal or recurrent events such as:  vernal equinox, winter solstice and other annual astronomical positions weekly Sabbath day inauguration of an elected office-holder occasions in a liturgical year or "feasts" in a calendar of saints  Other ceremonies underscore the importance of non-regular special occasions, such as:  coronation of a monarch victory in battle  In some Asian cultures, ceremonies also play an important social role, for example the tea ceremony. Process[edit] Ceremonies may have a physical display or theatrical component: dance, a procession, the laying on of hands. A declaratory verbal pronouncement may explain or cap the occasion, for instance:  I now pronounce you husband and wife. I swear to serve and defend the nation ... I declare open the games of ... I/We dedicate this ... ... to ...  Both physical and verbal components of a ceremony may become part of a liturgy. See also[edit]     Builders' rites Cornerstone Event planning Gift Groundbreaking ceremony                Human condition Opening ceremony Ribbon cutting ceremony Rite of passage Tjurunga Topping out (when the last beam is placed at the top of a building)..     Notes[edit]   ^ Grimes, Ronald L. (2000). "Ritual". In Willi Braun, Russell T. McCutcheon. Guide to the study of religion. Continuum International Publishing Group. p. 260. ISBN 0304701769.    External links[edit]    Wikiquote has quotations related to: Ceremony      Wikimedia Commons has media related to Ceremonies.      