   Look up doc or DOC in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   DOC, Doc, doc or DoC may refer to:    Contents   1 Media 2 People 3 Places 4 Fictional characters 5 Government departments 6 Computing 7 Food and wine appellations 8 Medical abbreviations 9 Other uses 10 See also    Media[edit]  Doc (2001 TV series), a 2001–2004 PAX series Doc (1975 TV series), a 1975–1976 CBS sitcom "D.O.C." (Lost), a television episode Doc (film), a 1971 Western film Documentary Organization of Canada, known as DOC, a non-profit organization supporting documentary filmmakers in Canada Doc Films, a University of Chicago film society  People[edit]  Doc (nickname) An abbreviation of Doctor Doc Brown (rapper), British rapper and comedian The D.O.C. (b. 1968), American rapper Krzysztof Raczkowski (1970–2005), musician Drew Hankinson (b. 1983), American professional wrestler also known by the ring name DOC  Places[edit]  Dominion of Canada Dóc, a village in Csongrád County, Hungary Dóc, the Hungarian name for Dolaţ village, Livezile, Timiș, Romania  Fictional characters[edit]  Doc (Buffyverse), in Buffy the Vampire Slayer Doc (Chrono Cross) Doc (G.I. Joe), two characters in the G.I. Joe universe Doc (cartoon character), an animated cat introduced by Walter Lantz Studios in 1959 Doc Daneeka, in the novel Catch-22 Doc Hudson, in the film Cars Doc Louis, in the video game series Punch-Out!! Doc McStuffins, a Disney Junior title character Doc Savage, a pulp fiction hero Emmett Brown, a scientist from Back to the Future Monte 'Doc' Parker, in the series Third Watch Doc, in the series Fraggle Rock Doc, in the series Red vs. Blue Doc, a dwarf in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 film) Doc Saturday, in the series The Secret Saturdays Doc Boy, from the Garfield series  Government departments[edit]  United States Department of Commerce Department of Conservation (New Zealand) Department of Corrections (various)  Computing[edit]  Doc (computing), a word processing file format, typically used by Microsoft Word. DiskOnChip, a type of flash memory device Dave's own version of Citadel, a bulletin board software variant  Food and wine appellations[edit]  Denominazione di origine controllata, an Italian level of classification Denominação de Origem Controlada, a Portuguese level of classification Denominación de Origen Calificada, a Spanish level of classification  Medical abbreviations[edit]  DOC, 11-Deoxycorticosterone, a steroid hormone DOC, 2,5-Dimethoxy-4-chloroamphetamine, a psychedelic amphetamine DOC, Deoxycholic acid, a bile acid DOC, drug of choice in pharmacology DOC, date of conception  Other uses[edit]  Dartmouth Outing Club Day-old cockerel, a term in falconry Diesel Oxidation Catalyst, a diesel retrofit system for automobiles Dissolved organic carbon, a molecule classification Doc (mascot), the Towson University mascot ISO 639-3 code for the North Dong language or dialect  See also[edit]  Dock (disambiguation) Documentation     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title DOC. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      