     It has been suggested that this article be merged into the SWORD Project. (Discuss) Proposed since January 2014.   For more on the word eloquent, see Eloquence.  Eloquent   Eloquent running on Mac OS X Snow Leopard with four different panes open.    Developer(s) Manfred Bergman   Stable release 2.4.10 / October 9, 2014   Preview release Non [±]   Written in Objective-C   Operating system OS X   Available in Multilingual   Type Biblical software   License GPL   Website Eloquent   Eloquent (formerly MacSword) is a free open-source application for research and study of the Bible, developed specifically for Macintosh computers running OS X. Eloquent allows users to read and browse different bible translations in many languages. As well as reading devotionals, commentaries, dictionaries and lexicons, it also supports searching and advanced features such as services so that you can access the Bible in any program. Because Eloquent is based on The SWORD Project, it is compatible with a growing collection of over 200 texts available in over 50 languages.    Contents   1 Version History  1.1 Release Notes   2 Reviews 3 See also 4 References    Version History[edit] Version 2.3.5 continues with Snow Leopard development. However, starting with version 2.4.0, Eloquent has started Mac OS X Lion testing only, implementing features that are specific only to the Lion operating system. Release Notes[edit]   Version Release date Features   2.3.3 June 15, 2011   Added spell checking context menu to notes display. It is now possible to add unknown words to the Mac OS X dictionary. Preview Pane now shows text as HTML rendered instead of plain text. Fixed problem where Eloquent didn’t honor the individual module font setting.      2.3.5 July 16, 2011   Fixed footnotes display in tooltip and preview pane updated version SWORD and module development utilities      Reviews[edit] It is one of About.com's top 10 bible programs.[1] See also[edit] The SWORD Project References[edit]   ^ Fairchild, Mary. "Top 10 Bible Software Programs". About.com. Retrieved 2 January 2014.  Listed under old name MacSword.      