  Evan   Pronunciation Welsh pronunciation: [ˈɛvan]; English pronunciation: /ˈɛvən/   Gender Male (rarely female)   Origin   Word/name Welsh   Meaning    "God is gracious" "Young warrior" "Right-handed"      Other names   Related names Ian, Ivan, Ifan, John      Look up Evan in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Evan is a Welsh masculine given name derived from "lefen", a Welsh form for the name John. In other languages it could be compared to "Ivan", "Ian", and "Juan"; the name John itself is derived from the ancient Hebrew name יְהֹוחָנָן Yəhôḥānān, which means "YHWH is gracious". Evan comes from Gaelic Eóghan meaning "youth" or "young warrior" and Scots for "right-handed".[1][2] In Hebrew, the actual non-Proper noun, "evan/even/eban/eben", literally means "rock". It can also be the shortened version of the Greek name "Evangelos" (meaning messenger) or "Evander" (meaning good man). The name is also occasionally given to girls, as with actress Evan Rachel Wood. It may be encountered as a surname, but Evans is usual.    Contents   1 Popularity 2 Notable people with the given name Evan 3 People with a surname Evan 4 Popular culture references to the name Evan 5 See also 6 References    Popularity[edit] The popularity of the name Evan in the United States rose steadily over the last several decades, going from the 440th-ranked name in 1957 to peaking at the 35th-ranked name in 2009. It has since declined somewhat, and dropped out of the top 50 names in the US in 2013.   Evan's popularity from 2003–2013   Year Rank   2013 55   2012 47   2011 40   2010 36   2009 35   2008 38   2007 40   2006 42   2005 38   2004 39   2003 44   Source: Social Security Administration.[3]   Notable people with the given name Evan[edit] See also: All pages beginning with "Evan"  Evan Alexander, American politician Evan Bayh, former Governor of Indiana and United States Senator from Indiana Evan Bourne, ring name of American professional wrestler Matthew Joseph Korklan Evan Chambers, American musician Evan Cooper, former professional American football player Evan Dando, American musician Evan Dara, American novelist Evan Davis, British economist and journalist Evan Dobelle, American educator Evan Dunham, American mixed martial artist Evan Eschmeyer, former American professional basketball player Evan Forde, American oceanographer Evan Fournier, French basketball player Evan G. Galbraith, former United States Ambassador to France Evan Glodell, American feature film director, producer, writer, and actor Evan Gray, former New Zealand cricketer Evan Handler, American novelist and actor Evan Harris, British politician Evan Howell, American politician and soldier Evan Jenkins, American politician Evan Kaufmann, German-American ice hockey player Evan Kim, American actor Evan Longoria, American professional baseball player Evan Lysacek, American figure skater Evan Meek, American baseball player Evan Peters, American actor Evan Price, Welsh politician Evan Pugh, First President of Penn State University Evan Roberts, Welsh revivalist Evan Roberts, American radio personality Evan Tanner, American mixed martial artist Evan Lorimer Thomas, Welsh clergyman Evan Thomas, American journalist and author Evan Turner, American professional basketball player Evan Rachel Wood, American actress Evan Royster, American professional football player Evan Spiegel, American founder of Snapchat Evan Stewart, Zimbabwean Olympic diver Evan Williams, American singer Evan Williams, American founder of Twitter Evan Wright, American writer Evan Yo, Taiwanese pop singer  People with a surname Evan[edit]  Rev. Cadwallader William Evan ( –1876), first minister of Stow Church, South Australia Griffith Mostyn Evan (1863–1924), his son, South Australian lawyer and sports administrator  Popular culture references to the name Evan[edit]  Evan Almighty, a mainstream movie released on June 22, 2007 as a sequel to the popular Bruce Almighty.  See also[edit]  Euan  References[edit]   ^ "Evan: Baby Boy Name Meaning, Origin, and Popularity". CafeMom. Retrieved August 26, 2014.  ^ "Evan". Think Baby Names. Retrieved July 18, 2012.  ^ Social Security Online: Popular Baby Names at http://www.ssa.gov/OACT/babynames       This given name–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.   v t e         