     This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2014)   For the former unit of weight, see load.     A fodder factory set up by an individual farmer to produce customised cattle feed   Fodder or animal feed is any agricultural foodstuff used specifically to feed domesticated livestock, such as cattle, goats, sheep, horses, chickens and pigs."Fodder" refers particularly to food given to the animals (including plants cut and carried to them), rather than that which they forage for themselves (see forage). It includes hay, straw, silage, compressed and pelleted feeds, oils and mixed rations, and sprouted grains and legumes. Most animal feed is from plants, but some manufacturers add ingredients to processed feeds that are of animal origin. The worldwide animal feed industry produced 873 million tons of feed (compound feed equivalent) in 2011,[1] fast approaching 1 billion tonnes according to the International Feed Industry Federation,[2] with an annual growth rate of about 2%. The use of agricultural land to grow feed rather than human food can be controversial; some types of feed, such as corn (maize), can also serve as human food; those that cannot, such as grassland grass, may be grown on land that can be used for crops consumed by humans. Some agricultural byproducts fed to animals may be considered unsavory by human consumers.    Contents   1 Common plants specifically grown for fodder 2 Types of fodder 3 Health concerns 4 Production of sprouted grains as fodder 5 See also 6 References 7 Further reading 8 External links    Common plants specifically grown for fodder[edit]     Round hay bales       Newton of Cawdor stack of bales, sweet-smelling fodder stored for winter       Cut green fodder being transported to cattle in Tanzania    Alfalfa (lucerne) Barley Birdsfoot trefoil Brassica spp.  Kale Rapeseed (canola) Rutabaga (swede) Turnip   Clover  Alsike clover Red clover Subterranean clover White clover   Grass  Bermuda grass Brome False oat grass Fescue Heath grass Meadow grasses (from naturally mixed grassland swards) Orchard grass Ryegrass Timothy-grass   Corn (maize) Millet Oats Sorghum Soybeans Trees (pollard tree shoots for "tree-hay") Wheat  Types of fodder[edit]     Various types of legume (left) and grass (right) fodder    Conserved forage plants: hay and silage Compound feed and premixes, often called pellets, nuts or (cattle) cake Crop residues: stover, copra, straw, chaff, sugar beet waste Fish meal Freshly cut grass and other forage plants Meat and bone meal (now illegal in cattle and sheep feeds in many areas due to risk of BSE) Molasses Oligosaccharides Seaweed Seeds and grains, either whole or prepared by crushing, milling, etc. Sprouted grains and legumes Yeast extract (brewer's yeast residue) Native green grass Bran Concentrate mix Oilseed press cake (cottonseed, safflower, sunflower, soybean, peanut or groundnut) Green maize Green sorghum Horse gram  Health concerns[edit]     Barley is a crop sometimes grown for fodder   In the past, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or "mad cow disease") spread through the inclusion of ruminant meat and bone meal in cattle feed due to prion contamination. This practice is now banned in most countries where it has occurred. Some animals have a lower tolerance for spoiled or moldy fodder than others, and certain types of molds, toxins, or poisonous weeds inadvertently mixed into a feed source may cause economic losses due to sickness or death of the animals. The US Dept. of Health and Human Services regulates drugs of the Veterinary Feed Directive type that can be present within commercial livestock feed. Production of sprouted grains as fodder[edit] Fodder in the form of sprouted grains and legumes can be grown in small and large quantities. Systems have been developed recently that allow for many tons of sprouts to be produced each day, year round. Sprouted grains can greatly increase the nutritional value of the grain compared with feeding the ungerminated grain to stock. In addition, they use less water than traditional forage, making them ideal for drought conditions. Sprouted barley and other cereal grains can be grown hydroponically in a carefully controlled environment. Under hydroponic conditions, sprouted fodder at 150 mm tall with a 50 mm root mat is at its peak for animal feed. Although products such are barley are grain, when sprouted they are approved by the American Grassfed Association to be used as livestock feed.     On site system in the USA.       A "grow deck" commercial sprouting system   See also[edit]     Agriculture and Agronomy portal     Cannon fodder (metaphorical usage) Factory farming Forage Grain Pasture  References[edit]   ^ "allaboutfeed.net". allaboutfeed.net. allaboutfeed.net. Retrieved 6 October 2014.  ^ "IFIF". IFIF.org. IFIF. Retrieved 8 October 2014.     Karl Heinrich Ritthausen (1872) Die Eiweisskörper der Getreidearten, Hülsenfrüchte und Ölsamen. Beiträge zur Physiologie der Samen der Kulturgewachese, der Nahrungs- und Futtermitel, Bonn, 1872 from Google books.  Further reading[edit]  Zhou, Yiqin. Compar[ison of] Fresh or Ensiled Fodders (e.g., Grass, Legume, Corn) on the Production of Greenhouse Gases Following Enteric Fermentation in Beef Cattle. Rouyn-Noranda, Qué.: Université du Québec en Abitibi-Témiscamingue, 2011. N.B.: Research report.  External links[edit]    Look up fodder in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fodder.    Animal feed legislation and guidance Animal Feed and Ingredients Glossary FAO Feed Safety guidelines Fodder Plants at Agriculture Guide An article from Agriculture Guide      