   Look up host, höst, høst, or hosť in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Host (masculine) and hostess (feminine) most often refer to a person responsible for guests at an event and/or providing hospitality during it, or to an event's presenter or master or mistress of ceremonies. Host or hosts may also refer to:  Host (biology), an organism harboring another organism or organisms on or in itself Host (liturgy), sacramental bread Host (psychology), "personality" as emphasized in treating dissociative identity disorder Host (radio), the presenter or announcer on a radio show Talk show host, a presenter of a TV or radio talk show the Maître d'hôtel (Maître d') and/or head waiter of a restaurant or hotel     Contents   1 Computing 2 Groups or formations  2.1 Fictional military hosts   3 People with the surname 4 Titles of works 5 Other uses 6 See also    Computing[edit]  Host (network), a computer connected to the Internet or another IP-based network  Hosts file, a computer file to be used to store information on where to find an internet host on a computer network host (Unix), a command-line Unix command Internet hosting service, a service that runs Internet servers allowing organizations and individuals to serve content to the Internet Virtual host, allowing several DNS names to share the same IP address    Groups or formations[edit]  Cossack hosts comprised organic and administrative subdivision of Cossacks in Imperial Russia. Host names reflected location or origin. Furious Host or the Wild Hunt, a European folk myth Heavenly host, an "army" of good angels in Heaven  Lord of hosts, a common epithet of the God of the Old Testament   a great number; multitude (Military) an archaic word for army  Fictional military hosts[edit]  The Hosts of Rebecca, a 1960 novel by Alexander Cordell about the Rebecca Riots Avenging Host, a group of characters in Marvel Comics Earth X series of comic books Rutan Host, fictional aliens from Doctor Who J. R. R. Tolkien's fictional Armies and hosts of Middle-earth warfare Hosts (World of Darkness), fictional characters in game Werewolf: The Forsaken  People with the surname[edit]  Jim Host (born 1937), American businessman Michel Host (born 1942), French writer  Titles of works[edit]  Host (Paradise Lost album), 1999 Host (Critters Buggin album), 1996 Hosts (novel), a 2001 book written by American author F. Paul Wilson Host, a 1993 book by Peter James Host, the third novel in the Rogue Mage series by Faith Hunter  Other uses[edit]  "Host", an author abbreviation in botany for Nicolaus Thomas Host Host station, railway stations in Melbourne, Australia equipped with facilities such as toilets Host, Pennsylvania, a village in Berks County  See also[edit]  Hostess (disambiguation) Hosting (disambiguation) The Host (disambiguation)     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Host. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      