For other uses, see Pianist (disambiguation).   Play media   Motion capture of two pianists' fingers playing the same piece (slow motion, no sound).[1]   A pianist (/ˈpiːənɨst/ PEE-ə-nist, /ˈpjænɨst/ PYAN-ist) is an individual who plays the piano. Most forms of Western music can make use of the piano. Consequently, pianists have a wide variety of repertoire and styles to choose from, including traditionally classical music, jazz, blues and all sorts of popular music, including rock music. Most pianists also can, to a certain extent, play other keyboard-related instruments such as the synthesizer, harpsichord, celesta, the organ, etc.    Contents   1 Pianists past and present 2 Classical 3 Jazz 4 Well known pianists  4.1 Classical pianists 4.2 Jazz pianists 4.3 Pop and rock music pianists 4.4 Blues pianists 4.5 Gospel pianists 4.6 New-age pianists   5 Pianists-composers  5.1 Classical period 5.2 Romantic period 5.3 Modern period   6 Amateur pianists 7 References    Pianists past and present[edit] Modern classical pianists dedicate their careers to performing, recording, teaching, researching as well as learning new works/expanding their repertoire. They generally do not write or transcribe music as pianists did in the 19th century. Some classical pianists might specialize in accompaniment and chamber music while others (relatively few) will perform as full-time piano soloists. Classical[edit] Mozart could be considered the first "concert pianist" as he performed widely on the piano. Composers Beethoven and Clementi from the classical era were also famed for their playing, as were, from the romantic era, Liszt, Brahms, Chopin, Mendelssohn and Rachmaninoff. From that era, leading performers less known as composers were Clara Schumann and Hans von Bûlow. However, as we do not have modern audio recordings of most of these pianists, we rely mainly on written commentary to give us an account of their technique and style. Jazz[edit] Jazz pianists almost always perform with other musicians. Their playing is freer than that of classical pianists and they create an air of spontaneity in their performances. They generally do not write down their compositions; improvisation is a significant part of their work. Well known Jazz pianists include Art Tatum, Duke Ellington, Thelonious Monk, Oscar Peterson and Herbie Hancock. Popular pianists might work as live performers (concert, theatre, etc.), session musicians, arrangers most likely feel at home with synthesizers and other electornic keyboard instruments. Notable popular pianists include Victor Borge who performed as a comedian; Richard Clayderman, who is known for his covers of popular tunes; and singer and entertainer Liberace, who at the height of his fame, was one of the highest paid entertainers in the world. Well known pianists[edit] A single listing of pianists in all genres would be impractical, given the multitude of musicians noted for their performances on the instrument. Below are links to lists of well-known or influential pianists divided by genres: Classical pianists[edit]  List of classical pianists (recorded) List of classical pianists List of classical piano duos (performers)  Jazz pianists[edit]  List of jazz pianists  Pop and rock music pianists[edit]  List of pop and rock pianists  Blues pianists[edit]  List of blues musicians List of boogie woogie musicians  Gospel pianists[edit]  List of gospel musicians  New-age pianists[edit]  List of new-age music artists  Pianists-composers[edit] Many important composers were also virtuoso pianists. The following is an incomplete list of such musicians. Classical period[edit]  Ludwig van Beethoven Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Johann Nepomuk Hummel Muzio Clementi Carl Maria von Weber Malek Jandali  Romantic period[edit]  Edvard Grieg Ferenc Liszt Frédéric Chopin Felix Mendelssohn Johannes Brahms Sergei Rachmaninoff Anton Rubinstein Camille Saint-Saëns Isaac Albéniz Nikolai Medtner Charles-Valentin Alkan Anton Arensky  Modern period[edit]  Dmitri Shostakovich Sergei Prokofiev Béla Bartók Maria Andriasova Esparza Mikhail Pletnev  Amateur pianists[edit] There is an interesting trend in recent decades that some people, having received a solid piano training in their youth, decide not to continue their musical careers but choose nonmusical ones, not least because the rivalry between modern classical pianists is extraordinary high. As a result, there are prominent communities of amateur pianists all over the world that play at quite a high level and give concerts just because of their love to music, but not to earn money.[2] The International Piano Competition for Outstanding Amateurs, held annually in Paris, attracts about one thousand listeners each year and is broadcast on French radio. It is also a notable fact that Jon Nakamatsu, the Gold Medal winner of the prestigious Van Cliburn International Piano Competition for professional pianists in Fort Worth, Texas (1997) was at the moment of his victory technically an amateur: he never attended a music conservatory or major in music, and worked as a high school German teacher then. It was only after the competition that he started pursuing a career as a classical pianist. References[edit]  ^ Goebl, W.; Palmer, C. (2013). Balasubramaniam, Ramesh, ed. "Temporal Control and Hand Movement Efficiency in Skilled Music Performance". PLoS ONE 8 (1): e50901. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0050901. PMC 3536780. PMID 23300946.  edit ^ The "Les Amateurs!" piano festival website.     