This article is about visual artifacts or reproductions.  For other uses, see Image (disambiguation). "Picture" redirects here. For other uses, see Picture (disambiguation). For Wikipedia image use guidelines, see Wikipedia:Images.      This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2013)       Two images of the same scene: The top image is a captured photo made using photography, while the bottom image is a simplified artistic rendering. Images are produced by capturing or rendering.       A scanned image of a the definition of image and imagery, from Thomas Blount's Glossographia Anglicana Nova, 1707.       An SAR radar image acquired by the SIR-C/X-SAR radar on board the Space Shuttle Endeavour shows the Teide volcano. The city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife is visible as the purple and white area on the lower right edge of the island. Lava flows at the summit crater appear in shades of green and brown, while vegetation zones appear as areas of purple, green and yellow on the volcano's flanks.       An image showing the act of photographing the environment with a mobile phone camera, while the display of the mobile phone shows a live display of the image.   An image (from Latin: imago) is an artifact that depicts or records visual perception, for example a two-dimensional picture, that has a similar appearance to some subject—usually a physical object or a person, thus providing a depiction of it.    Contents   1 Characteristics 2 Imagery (literary term) 3 Moving image 4 See also 5 References 6 External links    Characteristics[edit] Images may be two-dimensional, such as a photograph, screen display, and as well as a three-dimensional, such as a statue or hologram. They may be captured by optical devices – such as cameras, mirrors, lenses, telescopes, microscopes, etc. and natural objects and phenomena, such as the human eye or water. The word image is also used in the broader sense of any two-dimensional figure such as a map, a graph, a pie chart, or a painting. In this wider sense, images can also be rendered manually, such as by drawing, the art of painting, carving, rendered automatically by printing or computer graphics technology, or developed by a combination of methods, especially in a pseudo-photograph. A volatile image is one that exists only for a short period of time. This may be a reflection of an object by a mirror, a projection of a camera obscura, or a scene displayed on a cathode ray tube. A fixed image, also called a hard copy, is one that has been recorded on a material object, such as paper or textile by photography or any other digital process. A mental image exists in an individual's mind, as something one remembers or imagines. The subject of an image need not be real; it may be an abstract concept, such as a graph, function, or "imaginary" entity. For example, Sigmund Freud claimed to have dreamed purely in aural-images of dialogs. The development of synthetic acoustic technologies and the creation of sound art have led to a consideration of the possibilities of a sound-image made up of irreducible phonic substance beyond linguistic or musicological analysis. A still image is a single static image, as distinguished from a kinetic image (see below). This phrase is used in photography, visual media and the computer industry to emphasize that one is not talking about movies, or in very precise or pedantic technical writing such as a standard. A film still is a photograph taken on the set of a movie or television program during production, used for promotional purposes. Imagery (literary term)[edit] Imagery is in literature a "mental picture" which appeals to the senses.[1][example needed] It can both be figurative and literal.[1] Moving image[edit] A moving image is typically a movie (film) or video, including digital video. It could also be an animated display such as a zoetrope. See also[edit]  Animation Avatar (computing) Cinematography Computer animation Computer-generated imagery Digital image Digital imaging Film Fine art photography Graphics Imagery Painting Photograph  References[edit]   ^ a b The Oxford Dictionary of Literary Terms – Chris Baldick – Google Libros. Books.google.se. 2008-10-30. Retrieved 2013-02-16.    External links[edit]    Wikidata has a property, P18, for image (see uses)     Media related to Images at Wikimedia Commons  Quotations related to Image at Wikiquote  The dictionary definition of image at Wiktionary The B-Z Reaction: The Moving or the Still Image? Library of Congress – Format Descriptions for Still Images Image Processing – Online Open Research Group     