Not to be confused with Poplar. For a list of Wikipedia's most popular pages, see Wikipedia:Popular pages, also top 10, this month.    Look up popular, populus, or populous in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Popular usually refers to popularity, the quality of being well-liked.    Contents   1 Popularity 2 Sociology 3 Companies 4 Media  4.1 Music   5 See also    Popularity[edit]  An adjective referring to any people or population Popular culture, popular fiction, popular music. popular science Informal usage or custom, as in Popular names, terminology or Nomenclature, as opposed to formal or scientific names, terminology, or nomenclature. Frequently used or selected options, such as given names that are popular in the sense that they occur at high frequency in a population.  Sociology[edit]  Social status, the quality of being well-liked or well-known The mainstream, the quality of being common, well-received, in demand, widely understood Populace, the total population of a certain place  Populism, a political philosophy seeking to use the instruments of the state to benefit the people as a whole    Companies[edit]  Popular Holdings, a Singapore-based educational book company Popular, Inc., a Puerto Rican-based financial services company, also known as Banco Popular inc The Popular Magazine an American literary magazine that ran for 612 issues from November 1903 to October 1931 The Popular (Department Store) was a local chain of department stores in El Paso, Texas that was established in 1902 and closed in 1995  Media[edit]  Populous, a 1989 computer game, the seminal god game; see also Populous (series) Popular (TV series), a teenage dramedy on the WB  Music[edit]  "Popular" (Nada Surf song), a 1996 song by Nada Surf on their album High/Low "Popular" (Darren Hayes song), a 2004 song by Darren Hayes on his album The Tension and the Spark "Popular" (The Veronicas song), a 2008 song by The Veronicas on their album Hook Me Up "Popular" (Eric Saade song), a 2011 song by Eric Saade on his album Saade Vol. 1 "Popular" (Wicked song), a song in Wicked musical Popular, an unreleased album by Van Hunt  See also[edit]  Popularity (disambiguation) Poplar (disambiguation) Populaire, French for popular.     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the same title. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article. Note: This page may need to be cleaned up to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. Further information might be found on the talk page. Tools: DabFix       