"Pronounced" redirects here. For the Lynyrd Skynyrd album commonly referred to as "Pronounced", see (Pronounced 'Lĕh-'nérd 'Skin-'nérd). For pronunciation on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Pronunciation.    Look up pronunciation in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Pronunciation is the way a word or a language is spoken, or the manner in which someone utters a word. If one is said to have "correct pronunciation", then it refers to both within a particular dialect. A word can be spoken in different ways by various individuals or groups, depending on many factors, such as: the duration of the cultural exposure of their childhood, the location of their current residence, speech or voice disorders,[1] their ethnic group, their social class, or their education.[2]     1. Nose; 2. Lips; 3. Teeth; 4. Palate; 5.   Linguistic terminology[edit] Syllables are counted as units of sound (phones) that they use in their language. The branch of linguistics which studies these units of sound is phonetics. Phones which play the same role are grouped together into classes called phonemes; the study of these is phonemics or phonematics or phonology. Phones as components of articulation are usually described using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).[3] See also[edit]  Elocution Forvo Help:IPA for English — the principal key used in Wikipedia articles to transcribe the pronunciation of English words Wikipedia:Pronunciation respelling key — a secondary key for pronunciation, which mimics English orthography Wikipedia:United States dictionary transcription — another secondary key, more familiar to users of traditional US dictionaries Wiktionary:Pronunciation - entries in the English Wiktionary may contain a Pronunciation section  References[edit]   ^ Beech, John R.; Harding, Leonora; Hilton-Jones, Diana (1993). Assessment in speech and language therapy. CUP Archive. p. 55. ISBN 0-415-07882-2.  ^ Labov, William (2003). "Some Sociolinguistic Principles". In Paulston, Christina Bratt; Tucker, G. Richard. Sociolinguistics: the essential readings. Wiley-Blackwell. pp. 234–250. ISBN 0-631-22717-2.  ^ Schultz, Tanja; Kirchhoff, Katrin (2008). Multilingual speech processing. Academic Press. p. 12. ISBN 0-12-088501-8.       Wikimedia Commons has media related to Pronunciation.       This phonetics article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.   v t e         