This article is about the name.  For other uses, see Robert (disambiguation). "Roberto" redirects here. For the racehorse, see Roberto (horse).   Robert   Pronunciation /ˈrɒbərt/   Gender Male   Name day September 17   Origin   Meaning "fame-bright"   Region of origin Germanic   Other names   Related names Rob, Robbie, Robin, Rupert, Bob, Bobby, Bert, Rahbert      Look up Robert in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   The name Robert is a Germanic given name, from Old High German Hrodebert "bright with glory" (a compound of hruod "fame, glory" and berht "bright"). It is also in use as a surname.[1][2] After becoming widely used in Continental Europe it entered England in its Old French form Robert, where an Old English cognate form (Hrēodbēorht, Hrodberht, Hrēodbēorð, Hrœdbœrð, Hrœdberð) had existed before the Norman Conquest. The feminine version is Roberta. The Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish form is Roberto.    Contents   1 Variations 2 Trivia 3 People 4 In different languages 5 Surname 6 Fiction 7 See also 8 References    Variations    Bert (also short for Albert) Bertie Beto Betinho (Portuguese, "Little Beto") Berto Bertus Bo Bob Bobby Bort Dobby Hob (Medieval) Nobby (also short for Norbert) Rab (Scots) Raibeart (Scottish Gaelic) Riobard (Irish) Robby Robere (Old French) Roberts (Robertson, Latvian) Rob (also short for Robin) Robb Robo Robbo (Notably Red Robbo) Rodbert   Rodepertus, Rodbertus, Robertus, Rupertus (Latin) Rothbert Róbert (Hungarian, Icelandic, Slovak) Roberto (Italian, Spanish, Portuguese) Robertino (Italian, "Little Robert") Robertinho (Portuguese, "Little Robert") Robbert (Dutch) Robbi (Icelandic) Robbie Robi (Serbian, Croatian, Romanian) Ροβέρτος, Rovértos (Greek) Ροβῆρος, Rovēros (Greek) Röbi (Swiss German) Robin Röpke (Low German) Rabbie (Scots) Rhobert (Welsh) Robban (Swedish) Roban Robercik or Robuś (Polish, "Little Robert") [3]   Robetus Roibeárd (Irish) Roeper Roper (Breton/French) Roope (Finnish)[4] Roupen (Armenian) Rupert Ruprecht (Old High German) Ruppert Rvpertvs (Latin: "Rupertus") Rubert Rochbert Robrecht (German) Rodebert Rodebrecht (Old German) Rudbert Ruby (Old Dutch) Rudebet Roteberht (Germanic) Rotebert (Germanic) Trebor (reversal)   Feminine forms: Roberta Robbi Robertine Robertina Robina Ruprette/a (archaic French)    Trivia Robert, and also the name Joseph, were in the top 10 most given boys' names in the US for 47 years, from 1925 to 1972.[5] In Italy during the Second World War, the form of the name, Roberto, briefly acquired a new meaning derived from, and referring to the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo Axis.[6] People This section lists people commonly referred to solely by this name.  Duke of Normandy   Robert I, Duke of Normandy, also known as Robert the Magnificent; father of William the Conqueror   Franconian Babenbergers/Robertian Capetians   Robert II (Robert of Hesbaye) of Worms, Germany (aka Rutpert II, Hruodbertus II) Robert III of Worms, Germany (aka Rutpert III, Hruodbertus III) Robert the Strong (aka Rutpert IV, Hruodbertus IV)   Kings of France   Robert I of France Robert II of France   King of Naples   Robert of Naples   Kings of Scotland   Robert I of Scotland ("Robert the Bruce") Robert II of Scotland Robert III of Scotland   Legendary   Robert the Devil, supposed medieval knight fathered by the devil   Medieval   Robert of Avesbury, English historian Robert, 1st Earl of Gloucester, English noble Robert of Melun, scholastic theologian Robert of Winchelsea, theologian and opponent of both Edward I and Edward II of England Brother Robert, 13th century translator of French works into Old Norse   Saints   Saint Robert of Molesme, founder of the Cistercian Order (d. 1111) Saint Robert of Newminster, established the Abbey of Newminster near the castle of Ralph de Merlay, at Morpeth, Northumberland (d. 1159) Saint Robert de Turlande, founding abbot of the Abbey of Casa Dei, also called Chaise-Dieu (d. 1067)   Saint Robert Bellarmine, Jesuit Doctor of the Church (d. 1621)  In different languages  Arabic:روبرت Armenian: Ռոբերտ (Robert) Breton: Roparzh Bulgarian: Робърт/Роберт (Robert) Catalan: Robert Chinese Simplified: 罗伯特 (Robert) Chinese Traditional：羅伯特 (Robert) Croatian: Robert Czech: Robert Danish: Robert Dutch: Robrecht, Robbert, Robert Estonian: Robert Finnish: Roobert, Roope French: Robert Friulian: Robèrto Galician: Roberte Georgian: რობერტ (Robert) German: Robert, Ruprecht Greek: Ροβέρτος (Rovértos) Hebrew: רוברט (Robert) Hungarian: Róbert Icelandic: Róbert Irish: Roibeárd Italian: Roberto Japanese: ロバート (Robâto) Korean: 로버트 (Lobeoteu) Latin: Robertus Latvian: Roberts Lithuanian: Robertas Macedonian: Роберт (Robert) Norwegian: Robert Polish: Robert Portuguese: Roberto Romanian: Robert Russian: Роберт (Robert) Sardinian: Robertu Scottish Gaelic: Raibeart Serbian: Роберт/Robert Slovak: Róbert Slovene: Roberto Spanish: Roberto Swedish: Robert Welsh: Robat, Rhobert  Surname  Alain Robert, French rock and urban climber Hubert Robert, French painter Laurent Robert, French footballer Paul Robert (lexicographer), French lexicographer Robert brothers, Anne-Jean and Nicolas-Louis, French balloonists circa 1783-4  Fiction  Roberto, a handsome and suave Spix's Macaw in Rio 2  See also  Bobby (disambiguation), nickname for Robert Roberson Roberts (surname) Robertson (surname) Robinson (name) Rodger Roger Rupert (name)  References   ^ Reaney & Wilson, 1997. Dictionary of English Surnames. OUP ^ Withycombe, E., 1973 edn. Oxford Dictionary of English Christian names OUP ^ or just a diminutive of Robert ^ "Behind the Name: Meaning, Origin and History of the Name Roope". Behind the Name. Retrieved 2008-01-07.  ^ Frank Nuessel (1992). The Study of Names: A Guide to the Principles and Topics. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press. p. 10. Retrieved 11 September 2013.   – via Questia (subscription required) ^ RoBerTo Checked, Time Magazine, October 19, 1942      This page or section lists people that share the same given name or the same family name. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change that link to point directly to the intended article.      