Well may refer to:    Contents   1 Structures 2 Places 3 Other uses 4 Music 5 See also    Structures[edit]  Air well (condenser), a structure or device designed to promote the condensation of atmospheric moisture. Castle well, provided a protected source of drinking water Clootie well, a place of pilgrimage in Celtic areas Gas well, a relatively minor variation of an oil well Holy well, often pagan sacred sites that were later Christianized Jacob's Well, of religious significance in the West Bank Oil well, a hole drilled through the Earth's surface for the purpose of extracting petroleum oil. Salt well, or brine well, used to mine salt Water well, an artificial excavation, hole or structure for the purpose of withdrawing water. Well drainage of agricultural land by pumped wells Wishing well, a term from European folklore  Places[edit]  Well, Lincolnshire, a village in Lincolnshire, England  Other uses[edit]  Well, healthy Potential well, a concept used in physics Quantum well, a potential well with only discrete energy values Well, track 16 on the album Trout Mask Replica by Captain Beefheart and his Magic Band. The WELL, originally Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link, a virtual community. Well (play), a play by Lisa Kron. "The Well", a nickname for the Scottish football team Motherwell F.C. A single well of a microtiter plate, used in chemistry and biochemistry. The well of the court, part of the courtroom in some countries. A graphical element with in-set appearance  Music[edit]  ...Well?, album by Swell (band) 1991 Well... (Katey Sagal album) "Well", song by The Olympics (band), written Ward "Well", song by Little Richard written S. Cooke "Well...," song by Frankie Goes to Hollywood from Welcome to the Pleasuredome The Well (disambiguation), various meanings  See also[edit]  WELL (disambiguation) Wells (disambiguation) The Well (disambiguation)     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Well. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      