For the village in Iran, see Abdul, Iran.   Abdul   Pronunciation [ʕæbdel, ʕabdɪl, ʕæbdʊl]   Gender Male   Language(s) Arabic language   Origin   Meaning servant of the   Other names   See also Abdu, Abdi      Look up Abdul in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      This article contains Arabic text. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols.   Abdul (also transliterated as Abdal, Abdel, Abdil, Abdol, Abdool, or Abdoul, Arabic: عبد ال‎, ʿAbd al-) is the most frequent transliteration of the combination of the Arabic word Abd (عبد, meaning "servant") and the definite prefix al / el (ال, meaning "the"). It is the initial component of many compound names, names made of two words. For example, عبد الحميد, ʿAbd el-Ḥamīd, usually spelled Abdel Hamid, Abdelhamid, Abd El Hamid or Abdul Hamid, which means "servant of The Praised" (God). The most common use for Abdul by far, is as part of a male given name, written in English. When written in English, Abdul is subject to variable spacing, spelling, and hyphenation. The meaning of Abdul literally and normally means "Slave of the", but English translations also often translate it to: "Servant[1][2] of the".    Contents   1 Spelling variations 2 Etymology  2.1 Theophoric naming 2.2 Derived theophoric names 2.3 Arabic grammar 2.4 Independent naming   3 Given name 4 Surname 5 Fictional characters 6 See also 7 References    Spelling variations[edit] The spelling variation is primarily because of the variation in pronunciation. Arabic speakers normally pronounce and transcribe their names of Arabic origin according to their spoken Arabic dialects. Therefore it is pronounced /ʕabdel/ and written Abdel... or Abd El.... However, non-Arabic speakers or Arabic speakers may choose to transcribe the name according to the Literary Arabic pronunciation, which is the language of Quran, pronounced as /ʕabdul/ and written Abdul.... For other variations in spelling, see the Arabic grammar section. Etymology[edit] In Arabic language, the word عبد ʿabd means "servant", from the triliteral root ع-ب-د ʕ-B-D, which is also related to the word عبادة ʿibādah, "worshiping". Therefore, the word has the positive connotation, in an Islamic sense, of worshiping and praising God, rather than idols. Theophoric naming[edit] Essentially there is no Abdul, without the second part when written in Arabic, thus it appears as a component of many Arabic and specifically Muslim names, where it is the opening of a religiously based name, meaning: "Servant of God". And the last component of the name, is one of the names of God in Islam, which would form a Muslim Arabic theophoric name. The name Abdul Masih, ("Servant of the Messiah") is an Arabic Christian equivalent. In addition, Abdul is occasionally, though much more rarely, used in reference to a figure other than God. For example, the Indian name Abdul Mughal, ("Servant of the Mughal Empire"). Derived theophoric names[edit] Main article: List of Arabic theophoric names  The most common names are listed below   Abdullah, Servant of Allah Abdulaziz, Servant of the Almighty Abdulkarim, Servant of the most Generous Abdurrahim, Servant of the Merciful Abdurrahman, Servant of the Benevolent Abdussalam, Servant of the Peaceful Abdulqadir, Servant of the Powerful  Arabic grammar[edit] When followed by a sun letter, the l in al (normally pronounced colloquially el ) assimilates to the initial consonant of the following noun, resulting in a doubled consonant. For example, "Abdul Rahman", would be pronounced in Literary Arabic: [ʕæbdʊr ræħˈmæːn]. When the definite article is followed by a moon letter, no assimilation takes place. Therefore Abdul is not always used as the opening part of the name; if the second part starts with a sun letter, it may become forms including Abdun, Abdur, Abdus, or Abdush, the vowel in each name, similarly with Abdul, is also open to differing transliterations. Independent naming[edit] Abdul does not appear on its own as a male given name when written in Arabic. In some cultures, the theophoric part may appear to be a stand-alone middle name, or surname, thus confusing people as to whether Abdul is an accepted given name. Often if someone shortens his/her name, he may equally choose the theophoric part or Abdul. However, Abdul by itself is sometimes used as an independent full given first name outside of Arabic-speaking societies. Sometimes Abdul is followed by a word describing Muhammad the Prophet, for example "Abd un Nabi", which means "slave/servant of the prophet". Given name[edit]  Abdoul Diakite (born 1986), French-Malian footballer Abdul Diallo (born 1985), Burkina Faso footballer Abdul "Duke" Fakir (born 1935), American musician Abdul Hodge (born 1983), American football linebacker Abdul Salis (born 1979), British actor Abdul Thompson Conteh (born 1970), Sierra Leonean footballer Abdul Vas (born 1981), Venezuelan artist     This page or section lists people that share the same given name. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change that link to point directly to the intended article.   Surname[edit]  Ban Abdul (born 1981), Iraqi actress David Abdul (born 1989), Aruban footballer Lida Abdul (born 1973), Persian artist Paula Abdul (born 1962), American singer and television personality     This page or section lists people with the surname Abdul. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name(s) to the link.   Fictional characters[edit]  Abdul Alhazred, character created by American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft Abdul ibn Shareef, fictional politician on The West Wing Mohammed Abdul, fictional character in the manga and anime Jojo's Bizarre Adventure created by Hirohiko Araki  See also[edit]  Abdu, a nickname for the compound name or a given name. In this case it's not necessarily a name given to a Muslim Abdi, similar to Abdu Abdullah (disambiguation), often confused with having the same meaning as Abdul Arabic name Turkish name  References[edit]  ^ Salahuddin Ahmed (1999). A Dictionary of Muslim Names. London: Hurst & Company.  ^ S. A. Rahman (2001). A Dictionary of Muslim Names. New Delhi: Goodword Books.      