This article is about the food.  For the microbial nutrient broth, see growth medium.      This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009)     Broth      Main ingredients Water of flavored stock; any of bones, meat, fish, cereal grains, or vegetables    Cookbook:Broth   Broth   Broth is a liquid food preparation, typically consisting of water, in which bones, meat, fish, cereal grains, or vegetables have been simmered.[1] Broth is used as a basis for other edible liquids such as soup, gravy, or sauce. It can be eaten alone or with garnish. If other ingredients are used, such as rice, pearl barley or oats, it is then generally called soup. Commercially prepared liquid broths are available, typically for chicken broth, beef broth, and vegetable broth. Dehydrated meat stock, in the form of tablets, is called a bouillon cube. Industrially produced bouillon cubes were commercialized by Maggi in 1908 and by Oxo in 1910. Using commercially prepared broths allows cooks to save time in the kitchen.    Contents   1 Refining 2 Cultural distinctions 3 See also 4 References    Refining[edit] Broth has been made for many years using the animal bones which, traditionally, are boiled in a cooking pot for long periods to extract the flavor and nutrients.[2] The bones may or may not have meat still on them. Egg whites may be added during simmering when it is necessary to clarify (i.e., purify, or refine a broth for a cleaner presentation). The egg whites will coagulate, trapping sediment and turbidity into a readily strained mass. Not allowing the original preparation to boil will increase the clarity. Roasted bones will add a rich flavor to the broth but also a dark color. Cultural distinctions[edit] In Britain, a broth is defined as a soup in which there are solid pieces of meat or fish, along with some vegetables. A broth is usually made with a stock or plain water as its base, with meat or fish added while being brought to a boil, and vegetables added later. Being a thin and watery soup, broth is frequently made more substantial by adding rice, barley or pulses.[3][4] In East Asia (particularly Japan), a form of kelp called kombu is often used as the basis for broths (called dashi in Japanese). In the Maldives the tuna broth known as garudiya is a basic food item, but it is not eaten as a soup in the general sense of the term.[5] See also[edit]     Food portal       Wikimedia Commons has media related to Broths.    Bouillon Bouillon cube Dashi Scotch broth Stock Rosół Ramen  References[edit]   ^ Rombauer, Irma S.; Marion Rombauer Becker; Ethan Becker (1997). Joy of Cooking. 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020: Scribner. p. 42. ISBN 0-684-81870-1.  ^ Morell, Sally. "Broth is Beautiful". Retrieved 23 October 2014.  ^ Spaull, Susan; Lucinda Bruce-Gardyne (2003). Leith's Techniques Bible. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, 38 Soho Square, london W1D 3 HB: Bloomsbury. p. 661. ISBN 0-7475-6046-3.  ^ Barham, Peter (2001). The Science of Cooking. Springer-Verlag, Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer. p. 127. ISBN 3-540-67466-7.  ^ Xavier Romero-Frias, The Maldive Islanders, A Study of the Popular Culture of an Ancient Ocean Kingdom, Barcelona 1999, ISBN 84-7254-801-5      Look up broth in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.       This food ingredient–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.   v t e         