   Look up complete in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   See also Completion (disambiguation). Complete may refer to:    Contents   1 Logic 2 Mathematics 3 Computing 4 Economics, finance, and industry 5 Botany 6 Entertainment  6.1 Music   7 See also    Logic[edit]  Completeness (logic)  Mathematics[edit]  The completeness of the real numbers, which implies that there are no "holes" in the real numbers   Complete metric space, a metric space in which every Cauchy sequence converges   A uniform space is complete if every Cauchy net in it converges (or equivalently every Cauchy filter in it converges)   Complete measure, a measure space where every subset of every null set is measurable   Completion (ring theory) at an ideal   Completeness (statistics), a statistic that does not allow an unbiased estimator of zero   Complete graph, an undirected graph in which every pair of vertices has exactly one edge connecting them   Complete category, a category C where every diagram from a small category to C has a limit; it is cocomplete if every such functor has a colimit   Completeness (order theory), a notion that generally refers to the existence of certain suprema or infima of some partially ordered set   Complete algebraic variety, an algebraic variety that satisfies an analog of compactness.   Complete set of commuting operators (or CSCO), a set of commuting operators in quantum mechanics whose eigenvalues are sufficient to specify the physical state of a system   Complete orthonormal basis—see Orthonormal_basis#Incomplete_orthogonal_sets  Computing[edit]  Complete (complexity), a notion referring to a problem In computational complexity theory that all other problems in a class reduce to.   Completeness (knowledge bases), found in knowledge base theory.   Complete search algorithm, a search algorithm that is guaranteed to find a solution if there is one  Economics, finance, and industry[edit]  Complete markets versus incomplete markets Completion (oil and gas wells), the process of making a well ready for production.  Botany[edit]  Complete flower, a flower with both male and female reproductive structures as well as petals and sepals. See Sexual reproduction in plants.  Entertainment[edit] Music[edit]  Complete (Lila McCann album) Complete (News from Babel album) Complete (The Smiths album) Complete (The Veronicas album), 2009 "Complete", a song by Kutless from To Know That You're Alive "Complete", a 2007 song by Girls' Generation from the album Girls' Generation  See also[edit]  Completely (disambiguation)     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Completeness. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      