Not to be confused with Critique. For other uses, see Critic (disambiguation).     Critic by Lajos Tihanyi. Oil on canvas, c.1916.   A critic is a professional who communicates his or her opinions and assessments of various forms of creative work such as art, literature, music, cinema, theater, fashion, architecture and food. Critical judgments, whether derived from critical thinking or not, may be positive, negative, or balanced, weighing a combination of factors both for and against. Formally, the word is applied to persons who are publicly accepted and, to a significant degree, followed because of the quality of their assessments or their reputation. Unlike other individuals who may editorialize on subjects via web sites or letters written to publications, professional critics are paid to produce their opinions for print, radio, magazine, television, or Internet companies. Persons who give opinions on current events, public affairs, sports, media, and historical events are often referred to as "pundits" instead of "critics." Critics are themselves subject to competing critics, since critical judgments always entail subjectivity. An established critic can play a powerful role as a public arbiter of taste or opinion. Derivation[edit] The word critic comes from Greek κριτικός (kritikós), meaning "able to discern",[1] which is a Greek derivation of the word κριτής (krités), meaning a person who offers reasoned judgment or analysis, value judgment, interpretation or observation.[2] See also[edit]   Analysis Art historian Art criticism Censorship Complaint Connoisseur Constructive criticism Critical Philosophy Critical theory Critical theory (Frankfurt School) Critical thinking Critical vocabulary Critique Cultural critic Film criticism Food critic Literary criticism Music journalism Review Social criticism Textual criticism Theatre criticism Wine critic   References[edit]   ^ Greek-English Lexicon, at Perseus, Kritikos, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott. ^ Greek-English Lexicon, at Perseus, Krites, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott.      