Eileen (/aɪˈliːn/ eye-LEEN or /ˈaɪliːn/ EYE-leen) is a girl's first name. The name Eileen was originated by the name Helen, Elaine, or Ellen. It is the anglicised version of Irish Eibhlín, which is in turn a form of the older Irish Gaelic Aibhilín or Eilín (Anglicised as Aveline). Aveline is probably derived from Ava, which is of Germanic origin but whose meaning is uncertain, though it possibly means "desired".[1][2] The name Yleyana (/ˌaɪliˈɑːnə/ EYE-lee-AH-nə) is an uncommon variant. It is reported[3] that the name Eileen has been one of the 1,000 most popular girl's names in the United States in every decade since 1880.    Contents   1 Television series 2 Music 3 People 4 Fictional characters 5 See also 6 References    Television series[edit]  Being Eileen, a BBC comedy drama broadcast on BBC One.  Music[edit]  Come On Eileen, a song written by Kevin Rowland and performed by Dexys Midnight Runners on the album Too-Rye-Ay Eileen (musical) "Eileen", a song from Keith Richards' album Main Offender "Eileen", a song by The Hush Sound from the So Sudden album "Eileen Aroon", a song written by Cearbhall Óg Ó Dálaigh "Eileen", a song by Skid Row on the Subhuman Race album "Don't Walk Away Eileen", a song by Sam Roberts on the album We Were Born in a Flame "Everybody Loves Eileen", a song by Miljenko Matijevic from the band Steelheart "Eileen Og", a traditional Irish song "My Eileen is Waiting For Me", a song by Johnny McEvoy "Eileen", a song by Streetmark "Eileen", a song by Bing Crosby "Eileen's Song", a song by Burlap To Cashmere "Eileen's Ardency", a song by Leaves' Eyes  People[edit]  Eileen Albrizio, American writer Eileen Agar, British Surrealist painter and photographer Eileen Anderson, Hawaii politician Eileen Atkins, English actress Eileen Barker, UK professor Eileen Barton, American singer Eileen Bell, Northern Ireland politician Eileen Bellomo, member of rock group The Stilettos Eileen Bennett Whittingstall, UK tennis player Eileen Boylan, Filipina/Irish-American actress Eileen Brennan, American actress Eileen Browne (disambiguation) Eileen Caddy, a founder of the Findhorn Foundation community Eileen Catterson, Scottish fashion model and former Miss Scotland Eileen Chang, Chinese writer Eileen Collins American astronaut Eileen Coparropa, freestyle swimmer from Panama Eileen Daly, English actress Eileen Davidson, American film actress Eileen Derbyshire, English character actress Eileen Desmond, British politician Eileen C. Dugan (1945–1996), New York politician Eileen Dunne, Irish newsreader Eileen Ellison, English Grand Prix racer Eileen Essell, Irish actress Eileen Farrell, American opera and concert singer Eileen Fisher, clothing retailer and designer Eileen Folson, Broadway composer Eileen Ford, American model agency executive Eileen Fulton, American actress Eileen Gordon, United Kingdom politicisn Eileen Gray, Irish furniture designer and architect Eileen Growald, daughter of David Rockefeller Eileen Gunn, American science fiction writer and editor Eileen Heckart, American actress Eileen Helsby, British actress Eileen Herlie, Scottish-American actress Eileen Hiscock, British athlete Eileen Ivers, Irish-American musician Eileen Joyce, Australian pianist Eileen Kernaghan, Canadian novelist Eileen Lemass, Irish politician Eileen Malloy, US ambassador Eileen McCallum, Scottish actress Eileen McKenney, wife of American writer Nathanael West Eileen McNamara, American columnist and professor Eileen McNamara, Equestrian Eileen Myles American poet Eileen Nearne, member of UK Special Operations Executive (SOE) Eileen O'Brien (actress), English actress Eileen O'Connell (disambiguation) Eileen O'Keeffe, Irish hammer thrower Eileen O'Shaughnessy, wife of British writer George Orwell Eileen Paisley, Baroness Paisley of St George's, Northern Irish politician Eileen Pollock, Northern Ireland actress Eileen Pollock (writer), American television screenwriter and producer Eileen Power, British economic historian and medievalist Eileen Rodgers, American singer and Broadway performer Eileen Roca, former Miss Colombia Eileen Rose, American singer/songwriter Eileen Ryan, American actress Eileen Saxon, infant known as "The Blue Baby" Eileen Sedgwick, American silent film actress Eileen Shields, American footwear designer and entrepreneur Eileen Southern, African American musicologist Eileen Tabios Filipino-American writer and artist Eileen Walsh,Irish actress Eileen Way, English actress Eileen Whitfield, Canadian journalist and playwright Eileen Wilks, American fiction writer Eileen Wilson, American television star Eileen Yeow, Singaporean actress  Fictional characters[edit]  Eileen Shallot, character in the novella The Dream Master Birthday Girl: Eileen Eileen A Monkey Kung Fu girl from Virtua Fighter Series Eileen Prince, mother of Severus Snape from the Harry Potter book series Eileen, from the cartoon Regular Show Eileen Galvin, from the horror video game Silent Hill 4  See also[edit]  Aileen Eileen, Wisconsin Eilidh Ilene Evelyn (disambiguation)  References[edit]   ^ "Where does the name Eileen come from?". Retrieved 2008-01-04.  ^ "Meaning, Origin and History of the Name Eileen". Retrieved 2008-05-14.  ^ "Babies Named Eileen". Retrieved 2008-01-04.    4. Origin of the name Eileen. Retrieved 2009-05-04    This page or section lists people that share the same given name. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change that link to point directly to the intended article.      This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Eileen. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      