   Look up felix, Felix, Félix, or FELIX in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Felix (Latin for "happy" or "lucky") is a male given name and surname. Felix may refer to:  Felix (name), people and fictional characters with the name     Contents   1 Places 2 Music 3 Business 4 Science and technology 5 Warfare 6 Other uses 7 See also    Places[edit]  Felix, Spain, a municipality of the province Almería, in the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain. St. Felix, Prince Edward Island, a rural community in Prince County, Prince Edward Island, Canada.  Music[edit]  Felix (band), a British band Felix (musician), a British DJ Félix Award, a Quebec music award named after Félix Leclerc  Business[edit]  Felix (pet food), a brand of cat food sold in most European countries AB Felix, a Swedish food company Felix Bus Services of Derbyshire, England  Science and technology[edit]  Felix (programming language), an open source, community-based programming language Apache Felix, an open source OSGi framework by Apache Software Foundation 1664 Felix, an asteroid Free electron laser for infrared experiments (FELIX), a type of laser FELIX (experiment), a Roger Penrose's proposal for evaluating whether macroscopic systems can be in superposition states.  Warfare[edit]  Operation Felix, a German World War II project to conquer Gibraltar VB-6 Felix, an infrared-guided bomb Dieter Gerhardt, South African navy commander convicted of treason, code named Felix  Other uses[edit]  Felix (newspaper), the weekly students' newspaper of Imperial College, London Felix (ship, 1993), a passenger ship operating on Lake Zurich in Switzerland Felix, California, an unincorporated community in Calaveras County. Hurricane Felix (disambiguation), various storms Venus Felix (sculpture), a sculpture of Venus and her son Cupid Felix (Hewlett-Packard), a codename for the HP 200LX palmtop PC  See also[edit]  St. Felix's Flood, a flood disaster that struck the Netherlands in 1530 Saint-Félix (disambiguation), the name or part of the name of several communes in France San Félix, the name of two places in South America All pages beginning with "Felix"     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Felix. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      