  François      Look up François in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      Look up François or françois in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   François (French pronunciation: ​[fʁɑ̃.swɑ]) is a male French given name (first name), equivalent to the English name Francis. (See also related names Françoise, Francis, François-Dominique)    Contents   1 People with the given name 2 People with the surname 3 Places 4 See also    People with the given name[edit] Well-known François' include:  François Englert (b. 1932), particle physicist who in 2013 shared the Nobel Prize with Peter Higgs François Hollande (b. 1954), current President of France (2012-present) François Beauchemin (b. 1980), professional ice hockey player for the Anaheim Ducks François Gerome (b. 1895), French painter François Pinault (b. 1936), Founder of PPR François-Henri Pinault (b. 1962), Chairman and CEO of PPR and husband of actress Salma Hayek. François (album), the 1989 album by Desireless François Rabelais, a major French Renaissance writer, doctor and humanist Francis I of France, King of France. Reign; 1 January 1515 - 31 March 1547.the Father and Restorer of Letters François II of France, King of France and King consort of Scots, known as the husband of Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots, 1558–1560 François Couperin (1668–1733): French Baroque composer, keyboardist François Lapointe (b. 1961), Canadian racewalker François Lapointe, Canadian politician François Mitterrand, former President of France François Pienaar, South African rugby player François Quesnay, early French economist François Rozenthal, French ice hockey player François Sagat, model and gay pornographic actor François Steyn, South African rugby player François Robineau (b. 1961), a French photographer, François Tracanelli, French pole vaulter François Trinh-Duc, French rugby player "Citizen François", hostile British national personification of Revolutionary France François Lionet, French computer programmer François Rabbath, French double-bass player and composer François-Marie Arouet, French Enlightenment writer, historian, and philosopher François Truffaut, French film director, screenwriter, producer, actor and film critic  People with the surname[edit]  Abraham Francois, a Canadian soccer player André François, a Hungarian-born French cartoonist Christian Francois, a volleyball player Claude François, a French pop singer Déborah François, a Belgian actress Guillaume François, a Belgian professional footballer Hunter J. Francois, a Saint Lucian politician Julien François, a French footballer Tony François, a Mauritian international footballer  Places[edit] François is part of the name of several communes in France:  François, Deux-Sèvres Saint-François-de-Sales, in the Savoie département Saint-François-Lacroix, in the Moselle département Saint-François-Longchamp, in the Savoie]département Vitry-le-François, in the Marne département Saint-François, Guadeloupe Le François, in the Martinique département  See also[edit]  Saint-François (disambiguation) Lefrançois     