If you want help with Wikipedia, see Help:Contents, and Wikipedia:Questions.    Look up help in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Help is any form of assisting. Help may also refer to:    Contents   1 Computing 2 Film and television  2.1 Film 2.2 Television   3 Literature 4 Music  4.1 Bands 4.2 Albums 4.3 Songs   5 Other 6 Acronyms 7 See also    Computing[edit]  Help (command), a command that invokes documentations and helping information Online help, documentation that accompanies computer application software  Context-sensitive help, a kind of online help that is obtained from a specific point in the state of the software, providing help for the situation that is associated with that state   Help desk, a point of contact between product users and technical support  Film and television[edit] Film[edit]  Help! (film), a 1965 film directed by Richard Lester starring The Beatles Help (film), a 2010 Bollywood horror film The Help (film), a 2011 film adaptation of the Stockett novel  Television[edit]  Help (Australian TV series), a documentary series Help (UK TV series), a comedy series Help (Dutch TV series), a drama series The Help (TV series), a 2004 American series H.E.L.P., an American TV drama series "Help" (Buffy episode) "Help", an episode of The Protector  Literature[edit]  Help! (magazine) Help!! (manga) The Help, a historical novel by Kathryn Stockett  Music[edit] Bands[edit]  Help (band), an American rock band  Albums[edit]  Help! (album), the 1965 Beatles album which includes songs from the film of the same name The Help Album, a musical compilation album to benefit the War Child charity Help (Thee Oh Sees album) Help! (George Martin album)  Songs[edit]  "Help!" (song), a 1965 #1 single by The Beatles (and theme song from the film of the same name) "Help", a song by Lloyd Banks on the 2006 album Rotten Apple  Other[edit]  Help Remedies, a pharmaceutical company  Acronyms[edit]  Heat escape lessening position, a way to position oneself to reduce heat loss in cold water Higher Education Loan Programme, an Australian government loan scheme for students Hydrologic Evaluation of Landfill Performance, a model developed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, commonly abbreviated "H.E.L.P."  See also[edit]  Emergency, a situation which poses a dangerous risk of health, life, property, or environment  Emergency telephone numbers around the world Hue and cry, a shouted command to arrest a felon   Distress signal, a message from a person or a craft such as a ship or airliner to inform others it is in difficulty  Mayday (distress signal) SOS   Assistance (disambiguation) Help me (disambiguation) HELLP Syndrome, a medical condition affecting pregnant women. All pages beginning with "Help" All pages with titles containing "Help"     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Help. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      