  Hired!   Produced by Jamison Handy   Distributed by Jam Handy Organization    Release dates     1940 (1940)       Running time  19 min   Country United States   Language English    "Hired" redirects here. For the term when entering employment see Recruitment  Hired! is a 1940 short film that was made by the Jam Handy production house for Chevrolet as a training film for sales managers. It was shown in two parts during Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes #423 (Bride of the Monster) and #424 (Manos: The Hands of Fate).    Contents   1 Plot 2 Lessons 3 Home video 4 References 5 External links    Plot[edit] In the movie, Mr. Warren—a sales manager at a Chevrolet automobile dealership-is talking to his father about the men he hired. He complains that Jimmy and Henderson are not working out very well as salesmen. Warren's father tells him that he didn't do much better in the beginning when Harry hired him—that he made all kinds of mistakes. Warren remembers how closely Harry worked with him, and stressed to him the importance of prospects. His father asks if he has done that for the men working for him. Warren responds that he was too busy, and his father tells him that Harry wasn't too busy to help him out at first. Warren thought that Harry helped him because of Harry's friendship with his father, but his father says that Harry helped everyone who came to work for him. Warren's father swats at insects while talking to his son, but these insects are not visible to the viewer. The father responds to the insect attack by taking a handkerchief from his pocket and draping it over his head. Warren realizes that he hasn't done a very good job of helping his men, and that for them to improve he will have to work closely with his staff. He begins working with each of his men much more closely than he had been—Jimmy in particular. Warren passes on the lessons he learned over the years, and soon finds that his men are doing much better selling cars. Lessons[edit] At the end of the film, Warren presented the lessons he learned to the viewers:  "First — Hire good men and then see they are well trained on their own product and on competitive products." "Second — Be sure they have all the equipment and selling helps they need, and know how to use them." "Third — Help them plan their work to make the most effective use of their time." "Fourth — Stay in close touch with every man. Know what each one is doing. Work with them." "Fifth — Keep up their enthusiasm. Encourage every man every day."  Finally he tells viewers that those they hired need the help of their managers. Home video[edit] Currently, the film is in the public domain. MST3K part one was released with Bride of the Monster on the Shout! Factory Collection: Vol. XIX.[1] Part two was packaged in the Rhino single pack release of Manos: The Hands of Fate on both on DVD and VHS.[2] Likewise, the same program was packaged in the The Essentials two disc DVD set.[3] As recently as 2011, both parts were released on the Manos y Manos disc set.[4] References[edit]  ^ "Mystery Science Theater 3000 Collection: Vol. XX". Retrieved October 1, 2011.  ^ "Episode 424-Manos: the Hands of Fate". Retrieved October 1, 2011.  ^ "MST3K: The Essentials". Retrieved October 1, 2011.  ^ "Mystery Science Theater 3000: Manos The Hands Of Fate". Retrieved October 1, 2011.   External links[edit]  Hired! at the Internet Movie Database [1] at Internet Archive     