   Look up Live or live in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Live or Live! may refer to the following things:  Life Alive (disambiguation) Living (disambiguation) Lives (disambiguation) Live birth (disambiguation) Live wire (electricity) Live art Live coding     Contents   1 Film, television and media 2 Information and communication technologies  2.1 Music 2.2 Albums 2.3 Songs   3 Other uses 4 See also    Film, television and media[edit]  Live television, television production broadcast in real-time, as events happen, in the present Live radio, radio broadcast without delay Live action, cinematography not produced using animation Live! (2005 film), 2005 Dutch film Live! (2007 film), 2007 American film Live (2014 film), a 2014 Japanese film Live! (TV channel), an Italian music television channel Live! with Kelly and Michael, a syndicated American television talk show BBC Radio 5 Live, the BBC's radio service providing live BBC News, phone-ins, and sports commentaries CILV-FM, branded LiVE 88.5, a radio station in Ottawa, Canada  Information and communication technologies[edit]  Windows Live, the collective brand name for a group of Microsoft services currently under development Microsoft Office Live, an Internet-based software service Live Search, The search engine previously known as MSN from Microsoft Xbox Live, online gaming service for Microsoft's Xbox and Xbox 360 video game consoles YouTube Live, online annual live streaming event broadcast by YouTube Ableton Live, a software music sequencer Live CD, an operating system that can boot and run from a read-only medium instead of a hard disk drive Live USB, a live operating system that runs off a USB flash drive  Music[edit]  Live music (concert)  Recorded live track Live album, the genre   Live (band), an alternative rock band Live EP (Breaking Benjamin EP)  Albums[edit]  List of albums titled Live  Songs[edit]  "Live" (The Merry-Go-Round song), later covered by The Bangles "Live" (Superfly song)  Other uses[edit]  Live fire exercise, an exercise (often military in nature) conducted under realistic conditions, or using real ammunition  See also[edit]  AMD Live! Almost Live! Sound Blaster Live! Live!Girls! present Dogtown     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Live. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      