For the Wikipedia quotation templates, see Category:Quotation templates.    Look up Quote, mention, quote, quotes, or quoting in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      Wikiquote has quotations related to: quotations   Quotation is the repetition of someone else's statement or thoughts. Quotation marks are punctuation marks used in text to indicate the words of another speaker or writer. Both of these words are sometimes abbreviated as "quote(s)". Quote may also refer to:    Contents   1 Computing 2 Finance 3 Media 4 Speech and written text 5 See also    Computing[edit]  String literals, computer programming languages' facility for embedding text in source code Quoting in Lisp, the Lisp programming language's notion of quoting Quoted-printable, encoding method for data transmission Usenet quoting, the conventions used by Usenet and e-mail users when quoting a portion of the original message in a response message  Finance[edit]  Financial quote or sales quote, commercial statement detailing a set of products and services to be purchased in a single transaction by one party from another for a defined price Quote.com, a financial website Quote notation, representation of certain rational numbers  Media[edit]  Quote... Unquote, panel game on BBC Radio 4 Quote (magazine), a Dutch magazine. Most notable for publishing a yearly list of the 500 richest Dutchmen (nl:Quote 500). Quote, the protagonist of the 2004 platform game Cave Story  Speech and written text[edit]  Nested quotation, quotation inside a quotation Block quotation and Pull quotes, methods to highlight quotations in texts or on web pages Quotation mark glyphs, air quotes, and scare quotes, punctuation marks and their usage Quotation mining, compiling quotations Quoting out of context, a form of fallacy Use–mention distinction and quasi-quotation, the philosophical distinction between mentioning a word and using it to denote a thing or idea  See also[edit]  Mention (blogging), a means by which a blog post references or links to a user's profile Posting style, quoting the original message when a message is replied to in e-mail, Internet forums, or Usenet Quotation (disambiguation)     Look up quote in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.      This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Quote. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      