   Look up norm in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Norm or NORM may refer to:    Contents   1 In academia  1.1 In mathematics   2 People 3 Miscellaneous 4 See also    In academia[edit] A designated standard of average performance of people of a given age, background, etc.  Norm (artificial intelligence), a set of statements used to regulate artificial intelligence software Norm (philosophy), In normative ethics, a standard that is prescriptive rather than a descriptive or explanatory abstraction. Norm (social), expected patterns of behaviour and belief, often studied in sociology, social psychology, and many other academic fields Peremptory norm, a fundamental principle of international law which is accepted by the international community of states as a norm from which no derogation is ever permitted Norm, a statistical concept in psychometrics representing the aggregate responses of a standardized and representative group are established for a test, against which a subject is compared NORM, an abbreviation for naturally occurring radioactive materials NORM, an acronym coined by Chambers and Trudgill (1980) to refer to a group speakers frequently used in dialect studies ("non-mobile older rural males")  In mathematics[edit]  Norm (mathematics), a map that assigns lengths to vectors, with some variations:  Normed vector space Matrix norm Norm (abelian group), generalization to abelian groups Hölder mean, also known as the Power Mean or Generalized Mean   Surface normal, a vector which is perpendicular to a surface Field norm in algebraic number theory and Galois theory Ideal norm, the ideal theoretic generalization of the field norm Norm (group), a certain subgroup of a group   A map from a pointset into the ordinals, inducing a prewellordering In class field theory, a norm group is a group that is the image of the multiplicative group of a field. In Euclidean domain, many authors use "norm function" in place of "Euclidean function".  People[edit]  Norm Macdonald, Canadian comedian Norm Abram, carpenter in the television show This Old House Norm Harvey, American football payer   Fictional   Norm Peterson, a character in the sitcom Cheers and its spin-off Frasier Norm, a character from the Life. Be in it. campaign Norm the giant robot man, a recurring creation of Dr. Doofenshmirtz from Phineas and Ferb  Miscellaneous[edit]  The Norm Show, a television series featuring Norm Macdonald as the titular character Grandmaster norm, a chess result required to qualify for an official title Norms Restaurants, a chain of restaurants in Southern California NACK-Oriented Reliable Multicast (NORM) transport protocol, as defined in RFC 5740 The Norm a syndicated comic strip by Michael Jantze  See also[edit]  The Norm (disambiguation) Norman (disambiguation) Normal (disambiguation) Norma (disambiguation)     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Norm. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      