For the horse, see Overturn (horse).  For the unmaking of a contract between parties, see Overturning. Not to be confused with Turnover (disambiguation).   Overturn      Developer(s) Studio Zan   Publisher(s) Studio Zan Gamebridge (Europe)   Platform(s) WiiWare   Release date(s)   JP December 2, 2008 NA August 3, 2009[1] EU February 12, 2010     Genre(s) Action   Mode(s) Single-player, multiplayer   Distribution Download   Overturn is a video game developed by Studio Zan for WiiWare. It was released in Japan on December 2, 2008, in North America on August 3, 2009 and in Europe on February 12, 2010 by Gamebridge as Overturn: Mecha Wars.[2]    Contents   1 Gameplay 2 Reception 3 References 4 External links    Gameplay[edit] The game is set on the planet Zastadion where the player competes in a tournament that sees them controlling a hovering mecha armed with an arsenal of weapons to battle others in an arena. Players can compete in six classes of increasing difficulty: Rookie, Novice, Elite, Ace, Grand and Master, and choose from eight mechas, each with different attributes. Players can also upgrade their weapons and mecha with parts scavenged from their defeated opponents as they progress through the game. The game also supports 2 player split screen multiplayer, and up to 4 online through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. It is controlled using the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, and also supports the Wii Balance Board. Reception[edit] Although Nintendo Life found Overturn's single player component somewhat easy and underwhelming, they felt that the online multiplayer was impressive and also praised the game's presentation.[3] However IGN didn't find much excitement from the game's one-on-one mech battles, and noted that much of the story in the Japanese version was excised in the North American release. They were also disappointed that, despite claims in the manual, the game did not feature virtual spectators who cheered on the player.[4] References[edit]   ^ "Gridiron Action, Art Style Antics, Robot Battles and Seductive Bets". Nintendo of America. 2009-08-03. Retrieved 2009-08-03.  ^ Gamebridge Announces European Release of Overturn: Mecha Wars ^ Nintendo Life review ^ IGN review   External links[edit]  Official Japanese site     