   Look up return in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Return may refer to:    Contents   1 In business, economics, and finance 2 In technology 3 In entertainment 4 In politics 5 People 6 Other 7 See also    In business, economics, and finance[edit]  Rate of return, the financial term for the profit or loss derived from an investment Tax return (disambiguation), various meanings relating to taxation Returning, the process of bring back merchandise to a retailer for a refund or exchange Returns (economics), the benefit distributed to the owner of a factor of production. Abnormal return, denoting the difference in behaviour between one stock and the overall stockmarket Taxes, where tax returns are forms submitted to taxation authorities  In technology[edit]  Return (architecture), the receding edge of a flat face Carriage return, a key on an alphanumeric keyboard commonly equated with the "enter" key Return statement, a computer programming statement that ends a subroutine and resumes execution where the subroutine was called Aux-return, the input complement of an Aux-send out put  In entertainment[edit]  Film   Return (1954 film), a Hong Kong film directed by Lee Dut Return (1985 film), a film directed by Andrew Silver Wide Awake (2007 film), a South Korean film also known as Return Return (2010 film), a short film directed by Harri J. Rantala Return (2011 film), an independent film directed by Liza Johnson   Music   Return (album), by folk artist David Rovics Return (band), a Norwegian 80s pop/rock band "Return", a song by OK Go from the 2002 album OK Go "Return", a song by Shed Seven from album Let It Ride "Return", a song by The Wedding from the 2008 EP The Sound, The Steel Returns (album), a 2009 album by Return to Forever Return (EP), an EP by F.T. Island   Other   "Return" (Law & Order), an episode of Law & Order The Returns, a 2009 ballet by William Forsythe  In politics[edit]  Return (Transnistria), a European political party Election returns, denoting the resulting tallies of election ballots  People[edit]  Return J. Meigs, Sr. (1740–1823), American Revolutionary War officer, federal Indian agent Return J. Meigs, Jr., (1764–1825), Governor of Ohio, U.S. Postmaster General Return Torrey, American politician  Other[edit]  Return Point, Antarctica In gridiron football (American or Canadian), "return" can refer to either:     Kickoff return Punt return     Nostoi ("Returns"), a lost ancient Greek epic Diminishing returns, referring to a decrease of efficiency with scaling  See also[edit]  The Return (disambiguation) Return channel     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Return. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      