     It has been suggested that this article be merged into Enallage. (Discuss) Proposed since October 2013.   In traditional grammar, a solecism is a phrase that trespasses the rules of grammar.[1] The word originally was used by the Greeks for what they perceived as grammatical mistakes in their language. Ancient Athenians considered the dialect of the inhabitants of their colony, Soli, in Cilicia to be a corrupted form of their own pure Attic dialect, and labelled the errors in the form as "solecisms" (Greek: σολοικισμοί, soloikismoí; sing.: σολοικισμός, soloikismós). Therefore, when referring to similar grammatical mistakes heard in the speech of Athenians, they described them as "solecisms" and that term has been adopted as a label for grammatical mistakes in any language.    Contents   1 Examples 2 See also 3 References 4 External links    Examples[edit]   Name Type of grammatical breach Example   Catachresis Wrong agreement between verb and subject "He ain't going nowhere" for "He isn't [or "he's not"] going anywhere" or "he is going nowhere" (dialectical usage; see "ain't", double negative and Black English where the first example is grammatical)   Catachresis Wrong grammatical case "This is just between you and I" for "This is just between you and me" (hypercorrection to avoid the correct "you and me" form in the predicate of copulative sentences, even though "me" is the standard pronoun for the object of a preposition or the object of a verb). "Whom shall I say is calling?" for "Who shall I say is calling?" (hypercorrection resulting from the perception that "whom" is a formal version of "who" or that the pronoun is functioning as an object when, in fact, it is a subject [One would say, "Shall I say who is calling?]. The leading pronoun only could be an object if "say" were used transitively and the sentence were structured thus: "Whom shall I say to be calling?")    Catachresis Double subject "The woman, she is here" for "The woman is here" or "She is here" (nonstandard usage with the double subject "she")   Catachresis Double negative "She can't hardly sleep" for "She can hardly sleep" (a double negative, as both "can't" and "hardly" have a negative meaning)   Catachresis Double copula "The issue is, is his attitude is poor." for "The issue is his attitude is poor."   Catachresis Wrong copula "The reason being..." for "The reason is..."   See also[edit]  Catachresis Disputed English grammar Fowler's Modern English Usage Malapropism Zeugma, a rhetorical use of solecism for effect Prescription and description  References[edit]   ^ Bryan A Garner (2001). A dictionary of modern legal usage. Oxford University Press. p. 816. ISBN 978-0-19-514236-5. Retrieved 20 May 2013.    External links[edit]   The dictionary definition of solecism at Wiktionary     