   Look up stop in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Stop may refer to:    Contents   1 Film 2 Music  2.1 Albums 2.2 Songs   3 Medicine and anatomy 4 Optics and photography 5 Other uses    Film[edit]  Stop, a 1970 film by Bill Gunn Stop, a 1972 Quebec film by Jean Beaudin Stop!, a 2004 film starring Dia Mirza  Music[edit]  Double stop, the act of playing two notes simultaneously Organ stop, a component of a pipe organ  Albums[edit]  Stop! (album), by Sam Brown, or the title song (see below), 1988 Stop (Don Lanphere album), or the title song, 1983 Stop (Eric Burdon Band album), or the title song, 1975 Stop (Franco De Vita album), 2004 Stop (Plain White T's album), or the title song, 2001  Songs[edit]  "Stop!" (Against Me! song) "Stop" (Bang song) "Stop!" (Jane's Addiction song) "Stop" (Pink Floyd song) "Stop" (Ryan Adams song) "Stop!" (Sam Brown song), also covered by Jamelia "Stop" (Sibel Redžep song) "Stop" (Spice Girls song) "Stop! In the Name of Love", a song by The Supremes "Stop", a song by Black Rebel Motorcycle Club from Take Them On, On Your Own "Stop", a song by Death Angel from Act III "Stop", a song by Dope from Life "Stop", a song by Erasure from Crackers International "Stop", a song by Girls Aloud from Sound of the Underground "Stop", a song by Matchbox Twenty from Mad Season "Stop", a song by Mega City Four from Sebastopol Rd. "Stop", a song by Twin Sister from "In Heaven" "Stop", a song by James Gang from "Yer' Album"  Medicine and anatomy[edit]  Stop (dog), a part of a dog's skull Stop codon, a type of RNA molecule in genetic code STOP protein, a protein in animals Surgical Termination of Pregnancy, a type of abortion  Optics and photography[edit]  Aperture, a structure that limits the light entering an optical system F-stops, a unit of measure of aperture Stop, a measure of exposure value Stop bath, a chemical used in film processing  Other uses[edit]  Bus stop Door stop Full stop, a punctuation mark  STOP, used to replace the symbol in telegraphs, as Morse code has no method to produce it   Stop, Kentucky, a community in the United States Petzl Stop, a descender used in caving Safe Tables Our Priority, a food safety organization Secure Trusted Operating Program, a computer operating system Stop, a font designed by Aldo Novarese Stop consonant, a concept in linguistics Stop error, a computer error screen Stop sign, a traffic signal Stop squark, in quantum physics, a supersymmetric squark which is the superpartner of the top quark Society of Teachers Opposed to Physical Punishment Terry stop, a brief police detention in the United States Colloquialism for a railway station Train stop, train protection device Truck stop, a type of rest stop for truck drivers     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Stop. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      