   Look up surprise, surprised, surprises, surprising, or surprisingly in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Surprise may refer to:  Surprise (emotion), a brief emotional state experienced as the result of an unexpected significant event     Contents   1 Science and mathematics 2 Places 3 Entertainment 4 Music  4.1 Albums 4.2 Songs   5 People 6 Ships 7 See also    Science and mathematics[edit]  Surprise (networks), a measure for evaluating the quality of community structure in complex networks Surprise (apple), a pink-fleshed apple  Places[edit]  Surprise, Arizona Surprise, Indiana Surprise, Nebraska Surprise, New York Surprise Station, California or Surprise, California Surprise Valley (disambiguation)  Entertainment[edit]  "Surprise" (Buffy the Vampire Slayer), episode 13 of season 2 of the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer Surprise (animated film), a 1991 short by Pixar Surprise! (film), a 1995 short by Veit Helmer ¡Sorpresa!, a TV network whose name means "Surprise!" in Spanish  Music[edit]  5urprise, a South Korean band Surprise Records, a record label Surprise Symphony, Symphony No. 94 by Joseph Haydn  Albums[edit]  Surprise (Better Than Ezra album), 1990 by Better Than Ezra Surprise (Crystal Waters album), 1991 by Crystal Waters Surprise (S.E.S. album), 2001 by S.E.S. Surprise (Paul Simon album), 2006 by Paul Simon, released Surprise (Sylvia album), by country music singer Sylvia Surprises (Herbie Mann album), 1976 by Cissy Houston Surprise! (album), an album by Fifteen  Songs[edit]  "Surprise", a song by Sugababes from the 2007 album Change "Surprise" (Nevermind song) "Surprise!" (song),a 1996 song by Bonnie Pink Surprises, a song by Billy Joel from the 1982 album Nylon Curtain  People[edit]  Surprise Moriri (born 1980), South African footballer  Ships[edit]  HMS Surprise, the name of several British Royal Navy ships  HMS Surprise (novel), a 1973 historical naval novel by Patrick O'Brian   USS Surprise, the name of several United States Navy ships HMS Surprise (replica ship), a modern tall ship, built at Lunenberg, Nova Scotia, Canada HMS Surprize (1746), a 24-gun sixth rate ship of the Royal Navy Surprize (ship), convict ship sailed to Australia 1790 Surprise (clipper), 1850 clipper ship in the San Francisco and tea trades Surprise (1777), the first American naval ship of the name Surprise (paddle steamer), the first paddle steamer, and the first steam powered vessel, built and run in Australia  See also[edit]  Surprise factor, a storytelling technique Self-information, a concept in information theory Surprise, Surprise (disambiguation) Shock     This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Surprise. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.      