This article is about the given name.  For the administrative subdivision of Iran, see Susan District.  For the lake in Minnesota, see Lake Susan.      This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2007)     Susan   Gender Female   Origin   Word/name Persian, Hebrew   Meaning Lotus, Lily   Other names   Related names Sue, Susie, Susannah, Suzanne   Popularity see popular names   [1]      Look up Susan in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   Susan is a feminine given name, a form of Susanna, deriving originally from Middle Egyptian "sšn" (lotus flower), first reported on an 11th Dynasty sarcophagus dating from approximately 2000 B.C. However, the Hebrew root for the name for the lily, שושן, is derived from the root שוש or ששנ, meaning "to be joyful, bright, or cheerful", which is the basis for the word and name ששון Sasson, meaning "joy of life*". The Persian name for lily is سوسن sousan, susan. The name of Susa, an ancient city of Persia, may be derived from the lilies which abounded in the plain in which it was situated.    Contents   1 Variations 2 Nicknames 3 In other languages 4 See also 5 References 6 External links    Variations[edit]  Susana, Susanna, Susannah Suzana, Suzanna, Suzannah Susann, Suzan, Suzann Susanne, Suzanne Susanne, Susanne, sunshine Suzette  Nicknames[edit] Common nicknames for Susan include:  Sue, Suse, Susie, Sanna Suzi, Suzy, Suzie, Suki  In other languages[edit]  Persian: سوسن‎ (Sousan, Susan) / Tajik: Савсан (Savsan), Tajik: Сӯсан (Süsan) Arabic: سوسن‎ (Sawsan) Armenian: Շուշան (Šušan) Chinese: 苏珊 (Sushan) Sujan in Korean (수잔) Suzanne in French and Dutch Susanne in German, Danish and Norwegian Hebrew: שושנה‎ (Shoshana) (often shortened to Hebrew: שוש‎ Shosh, Hebrew: שושי‎ Shoshi) Shoshamma in Malayalam Zsuzsanna in Hungarian Susanna in Italian Japanese: スーザン (Sūzan); interestingly, the word for Lily of the Valley is すずらん、Suzuran, which sounds quite like Susan. Susanna, Sanna and Susanne in Swedish Xuxa in Latin origin Zuzanna or Zane in Latvian Zuzana in Czech and Slovak Zuzanna, Zuzia in Polish Susana in Portuguese, Spanish Suzana in Romanian Susanna in Estonian Сузана in Serbian Сюзанна in Russian Σουζάνα (Souzana) or Σουσάννα (Sousanna) in Greek ܫܘܫܢ or ܫܘܫܢܬ (Shushan or Shushaneh) in Assyrian/Chaldean/Aramaic/Syriac Suzan in Turkish Сусанна in Ukrainian Urdu: کنول‎  See also[edit]  Lazy Susan Black-eyed Susan (disambiguation) List of Susans The SUSAN corner detector, a computer vision algorithm.  References[edit]  ^ Behind the Name: Meaning, Origin and History of the Name Susanna  External links[edit]  Famous Susans Etymology of Hebrew "shoshana" – basis of the name "Susan"     This page or section lists people that share the same given name. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change that link to point directly to the intended article.      