   Contents   1 English  1.1 Etymology 1.2 Pronunciation 1.3 Preposition  1.3.1 Translations   1.4 Adverb  1.4.1 Translations   1.5 See also      English[edit] Etymology[edit] Old English þurh ūt. Pronunciation[edit]  enPR: thro͞o-out' IPA(key): /θɹuːˈaʊt/    Audio (US)  Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player. You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser.  (file)    Rhymes: -aʊt  Preposition[edit] throughout  In every part of; all through.  1748, David Hume. Enquiries concerning the human understanding and concerning the principles of moral. London: Oxford University Press, 1973, §5:  And though a philosopher may live remote from business, the genius of philosophy, if carefully cultivated by several, must gradually diffuse itself throughout the whole society.    1913,  Robert Barr,  chapter 4, Lord Stranleigh Abroad:  “My father had ideas about conservation long before the United States took it up. […] You preserve water in times of flood and freshet to be used for power or for irrigation throughout the year. […]”     2006,  Edwin Black,  chapter 2, Internal Combustion:  But through the oligopoly, charcoal fuel proliferated throughout London's trades and industries.  By the 1200s, brewers and bakers, tilemakers, glassblowers, pottery producers, and a range of other craftsmen all became hour-to-hour consumers of charcoal.       Translations[edit]  in every part of; all through      Arabic: طوال (Tawaal) Catalan: al llarg de Cherokee: ᏂᎦᏅᎯᏒ (niganvhisv) French: tout au long de, durant (fr), pendant tout le m, pendant toute la f Greek: καθ' όλη τη διάρκεια (kath' óli ti diárkeia) Italian: in ogni parte, dappertutto (it) Maori: puta noa      Russian: по всему m, n (po vsemú), по всей (po vséj), по всем pl (po vsém) Sorbian:  Lower Sorbian: pó (+ locative)   Spanish: a lo largo de, durante (es) Swedish: genom (sv)       Adverb[edit] throughout (not comparable)  (obsolete) Completely through, right the way through.  1485, Thomas Malory, Le Morte Darthur, Book X, chapter iij:  Syr she said here came a knyght rydyng as my lord and I rested vs here / and asked hym of whens he was / and my lord said of Arthurs courte / therfore said the stronge knyght I wille Iuste with the / for I hate alle these that ben of Arthurs Courte / And my lord that lyeth here dede amounted vpon his hors / and the stronge knyght and my lord encountred to gyder / and there he smote my lord thorugh oute with his spere     In every part; everywhere. During an entire period of time.  2012, Chelsea 6-0 Wolves  Chelsea's youngsters, who looked lively throughout, then combined for the second goal in the seventh minute. Romeu's shot was saved by Wolves goalkeeper Dorus De Vries but Piazon kept the ball alive and turned it back for an unmarked Bertrand to blast home.      Translations[edit]  everywhere      Chinese:  Mandarin: 到處, 到处 (zh) (dàochù)   Dutch: overal (nl) French: partout (fr) German: überall (de) Hindi: भर (bhar) (bhar) Hungarian: mindenhol (hu), mindenütt (hu), végig (hu), keresztül-kasul Japanese: 至る所 (いたるところ, itarutokoro)      Latvian: viscaur Portuguese: por (pt) todo (pt) Russian: повсюду (ru) (povsjúdu), насквозь (ru) (naskvózʹ) Spanish: de arriba abajo, por todo/a el/la/lo Telugu: వ్యాప్తంగా (vyāptaṃgā) (vyaaptaMgaa) Urdu: بھر (bhar) Volapük: da (vo)       See also[edit]  passim     