This article is about the literary form.  For the musical composition by Cornelius Cardew, see Treatise (music).      This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (October 2010)      Look up treatise in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.   A treatise is a formal and systematic written discourse on some subject, generally longer and treating it in greater depth than an essay, and more concerned with investigating or exposing the principles of the subject. Noteworthy treatises[edit] Treatises have been written by various philosophers:    The book of Acts refers to the gospel of Luke as "the former treatise" Xenophon—Oeconomicus Aristotle—various treatises Chanakya—Arthashastra Adi Shankara—Vivekacūḍāmaṇi (Crest-Jewel of Discrimination) and many others. Claudius Ptolemaeus—Almagest Nizam al-Mulk—Siyasatnama (The Book of Government) Niccolò Machiavelli—The Prince, and Discourses on Livy René Descartes—The World, Compendium Musicae, and Discourse on the Method John Locke—Two Treatises of Government Cesare Beccaria—On Crimes and Punishments David Hume—A Treatise of Human Nature Adam Smith—The Theory of Moral Sentiments and The Wealth of Nations Joseph Priestley—Disquisitions relating to Matter and Spirit Henry George—Progress and Poverty: An Inquiry into the Cause of Industrial Depressions and of Increase of Want with Increase of Wealth: The Remedy William Godwin—Enquiry concerning Political Justice, and its Influence on General Virtue and Happiness Leo Tolstoy—The Kingdom of God is Within You Karl Marx—Das Kapital Julien Offray de La Mettrie—Man a Machine "L'Homme Machine"     Other well-known treatises include:  Augustine of Hippo—various treatises Adam of Bremen—Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum Sun Tzu—The Art of War Carl von Clausewitz—On War Bruce Lee—Tao of Jeet Kune Do Euclid—Elements Ptolemy—Geography (Treatise on cartography) [1] Geoffery Chaucer—The Parson's Tale Thomas Paine—Rights of Man, Common Sense, and The Age of Reason Charles Darwin—On the Origin of Species James Clerk Maxwell—A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism Anonymous—Secretum Secretorum, a Middle Ages general treatise   Treatises on art:  Shitao—Hua Yu Lu (Treatise on the Philosophy of Painting) Zeami Motokiyo—Teachings on the Flower     Treatises on architecture:  Vitruvius—De architectura Leon Battista Alberti—De re aedificatoria Andrea Palladio—I Quattro Libri dell’Architettura     Treatises on music:  Jean-Philippe Rameau —Treatise on Harmony Hector Berlioz—Treatise on Instrumentation (sometimes, Treatise on Orchestration)     Recent economics treatises have also been written:  Ludwig Von Mises—Human Action Paul Samuelson—Foundations of Economic Analysis Milton Friedman—Capitalism and Freedom Murray Rothbard—Man, Economy, and State George Reisman—Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics     Treatises on Nutrition:  Weston A. Price—Nutrition and Physical Degeneration Sally Fallon, Mary Enig—Nourishing Traditions    See also[edit]  Compilation thesis Edited volume Essay Legal treatise Monograph  References[edit]   ^ J. L. Berggren, Alexander Jones; Ptolemy's Geography By Ptolemy, Princeton University Press, 2001 ISBN 0-691-09259-1      